| Title | Authors | Abstract | Domain | Source URL |
|-------|---------|----------|--------|------------|
| Concentration of ergotropy in many-body systems | Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Rick P. A. Simon, Janet Anders |   Ergotropy -- the maximal amount of unitarily extractable work -- measures the
``charge level'' of quantum batteries. We prove that in large many-body
batteries ergotropy exhibits a concentration of measure phenomenon. Namely, the
ergotropy of such systems is almost constant for almost all states sampled from
the Hilbert--Schmidt measure. We establish this by first proving that
ergotropy, as a function of the state, is Lipschitz-continuous with respect to
the Bures distance, and then applying Levy's measure concentration lemma. In
parallel, we showcase the analogous properties of von Neumann entropy,
compiling and adapting known results about its continuity and concentration
properties. Furthermore, we consider the situation with the least amount of
prior information about the state. This corresponds to the quantum version of
the Jeffreys prior distribution -- the Bures measure. In this case, there exist
no analytical bounds guaranteeing exponential concentration of measure.
Nonetheless, we provide numerical evidence that ergotropy, as well as von
Neumann entropy, concentrate also in this case.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19801v1) |
| Non-Scaling Topological Defects and Gravitational Waves in Higgs Portal | Wen Yin |   One of the simplest extensions of the Standard Model is the Higgs portal
extension involving a dark Higgs. Dark sectors that include dark matter
candidates, WIMPs, axions, and dark photons, can naturally have this type of
interaction, where the dark Higgs is charged under some symmetry, which may or
may not be spontaneous broken by the vacuum expectation value. In this paper,
using lattice simulations, I show that if the reheating temperature of the
Universe is sufficiently high, topological defects such as domain walls and
cosmic strings associated with these symmetries are naturally formed even if
the symmetries are never restored due to negative thermal mass squareds. This
occurs due to the early Universe's non-adiabatic oscillation of the Higgs
around the onset of oscillation, which overshoots the origin, and tachyonic
instability that enhances fluctuations. The gravitational waves generated by
these topological defects may be very significant due to the energetic
processes induced by matter effects in the hot and dense Universe irrelevant to
the typical energy scale of the dark sector in the vacuum or whether the
symmetry is broken in the vacuum. Alongside earlier studies such as usual phase
transition, melting domain walls and melting cosmic strings scenarios that
assume a symmetric phase in the early Universe, the Higgs portal models
naturally predict local overdensities from topological defects, which may
induce miniclusters and primordial black holes, as well as the gravitational
waves.These phenomena provide novel opportunities to search for such scenarios.
I also perform various numerical simulations for the relevant topic including
melting domain walls and cosmic strings with inflationary and Gaussian
fluctuations, for comparison--which have not been performed previously.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19798v1) |
| Generalized Grade-of-Membership Estimation for High-dimensional Locally
  Dependent Data | Ling Chen, Chengzhu Huang, Yuqi Gu |   This work focuses on the mixed membership models for multivariate categorical
data widely used for analyzing survey responses and population genetics data.
These grade of membership (GoM) models offer rich modeling power but present
significant estimation challenges for high-dimensional polytomous data. Popular
existing approaches, such as Bayesian MCMC inference, are not scalable and lack
theoretical guarantees in high-dimensional settings. To address this, we first
observe that data from this model can be reformulated as a three-way
(quasi-)tensor, with many subjects responding to many items with varying
numbers of categories. We introduce a novel and simple approach that flattens
the three-way quasi-tensor into a "fat" matrix, and then perform a singular
value decomposition of it to estimate parameters by exploiting the singular
subspace geometry. Our fast spectral method can accommodate a broad range of
data distributions with arbitrarily locally dependent noise, which we formalize
as the generalized-GoM models. We establish finite-sample entrywise error
bounds for the generalized-GoM model parameters. This is supported by a new
sharp two-to-infinity singular subspace perturbation theory for locally
dependent and flexibly distributed noise, a contribution of independent
interest. Simulations and applications to data in political surveys, population
genetics, and single-cell sequencing demonstrate our method's superior
performance.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19796v1) |
| MVTamperBench: Evaluating Robustness of Vision-Language Models | Amit Agarwal, Srikant Panda, Angeline Charles, Bhargava Kumar, Hitesh Patel, Priyanranjan Pattnayak, Taki Hasan Rafi, Tejaswini Kumar, Dong-Kyu Chae |   Recent advancements in Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have enabled significant
progress in complex video understanding tasks. However, their robustness to
real-world manipulations remains underexplored, limiting their reliability in
critical applications. To address this gap, we introduce MVTamperBench, a
comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate VLM's resilience to video
tampering effects, including rotation, dropping, masking, substitution, and
repetition. By systematically assessing state-of-the-art models, MVTamperBench
reveals substantial variability in robustness, with models like InternVL2-8B
achieving high performance, while others, such as Llama-VILA1.5-8B, exhibit
severe vulnerabilities. To foster broader adoption and reproducibility,
MVTamperBench is integrated into VLMEvalKit, a modular evaluation toolkit,
enabling streamlined testing and facilitating advancements in model robustness.
Our benchmark represents a critical step towards developing tamper-resilient
VLMs, ensuring their dependability in real-world scenarios.
  Project Page: https://amitbcp.github.io/MVTamperBench/
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19794v1) |
| InfAlign: Inference-aware language model alignment | Ananth Balashankar, Ziteng Sun, Jonathan Berant, Jacob Eisenstein, Michael Collins, Adrian Hutter, Jong Lee, Chirag Nagpal, Flavien Prost, Aradhana Sinha, and Ananda Theertha Suresh, Ahmad Beirami |   Language model alignment has become a critical step in training modern
generative language models. The goal of alignment is to finetune a reference
model such that the win rate of a sample from the aligned model over a sample
from the reference model is high, subject to a KL divergence constraint. Today,
we are increasingly using inference-time algorithms (e.g., Best-of-N,
controlled decoding, tree search) to decode from language models rather than
standard sampling. However, the alignment objective does not capture such
inference-time decoding procedures. We show that the existing alignment
framework is sub-optimal in view of such inference-time methods. We then modify
the alignment objective and propose a framework for inference-aware alignment
(IAPO). We prove that for any inference-time decoding algorithm, the optimal
solution that optimizes the inference-time win rate of the aligned policy
against the reference policy is the solution to the typical RLHF problem with a
transformation of the reward. This motivates us to provide the KL-regularized
calibrate-and-transform RL (CTRL) algorithm to solve this problem, which
involves a reward calibration step and a KL-regularized reward maximization
step with a transformation of the calibrated reward. We particularize our study
to two important inference-time strategies: best-of-N sampling and best-of-N
jailbreaking, where N responses are sampled from the model and the one with the
highest or lowest reward is selected. We propose specific transformations for
these strategies and demonstrate that our framework offers significant
improvements over existing state-of-the-art methods for language model
alignment. Empirically, we outperform baselines that are designed without
taking inference-time decoding into consideration by 8-12% and 4-9% on
inference-time win rates over the Anthropic helpfulness and harmlessness dialog
benchmark datasets.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19792v1) |
| Bottom-up robust modeling for the foraging behavior of Physarum
  polycephalum | Damiano Reginato, Daniele Proverbio, Giulia Giordano |   The true slime mold \textit{Physarum polycephalum} has the remarkable
capability to perform self-organized activities such as network formation among
food sources. Despite well reproducing the emergence of slime networks,
existing models are limited in the investigation of the minimal mechanisms, at
the microscopic scale, that ensure robust problem-solving capabilities at the
macroscopic scale. To this end, we develop three progressively more complex
multi-agent models to provide a flexible framework to understand the
self-organized foraging and network formation behaviors of \textit{Physarum}.
The hierarchy of models allows for a stepwise investigation of the minimal set
of rules that allow bio-inspired computing agents to achieve the desired
behaviors on nutrient-poor substrates. By introducing a quantitative measure of
connectedness among food sources, we assess the sensitivity of the model to
user-defined and bio-inspired parameters, as well as the robustness of the
model to parameter heterogeneity across agents. We ultimately observe the
robust emergence of pattern formation, in line with experimental evidence.
Overall, our study sheds light onto the basic mechanisms of self-organization
and paves the way towards the development of decentralized strategies for
network formation in engineered systems, focusing on trade-offs between
biological fidelity and computational efficiency.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19790v1) |
| Data-driven analysis of anomalous transport and three-wave-coupling
  effects in E x B plasma discharges | Borja Bayón-Buján, Enrique Bello-Benítez, Jiewei Zhou, Mario Merino |   Collisionless cross-field electron transport in an E x B configuration
relevant for electric propulsion is studied using data from a (z, {\theta})
full-PIC simulation. Higher-order spectral analysis shows that transport is
dominated by the in-phase interaction of the oscillations of the azimuthal
electric field and the electron density associated to the first electron
cyclotron drift instability (ECDI) mode. A secondary contribution emanates from
a lower-frequency mode, not predicted by linear ECDI theory, while higher modes
have a minor direct impact on transport. However, a bicoherence analysis
reveals that strong phase couplings exist among the ECDI modes, and a sparse
symbolic regression spectral model, based on the three-wave coupling equations,
suggests an inverse energy cascade as the most likely explanation, thus
suggesting that higher modes contribute indirectly to transport by quadratic
power transfer to the first mode. This work provides new insights into the
dynamics of anomalous plasma transport in E x B sources and the underlying
processes governing energy distribution across different scales, and supports
the validity of weak turbulence theory to examine their behavior.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19789v1) |
| Composite operators in $\mathcal{N}=4$ Super Yang-Mills | Agnese Bissi, Giulia Fardelli, Andrea Manenti |   We consider four-point functions of protected, double- and single-trace
operators in the large central charge limit. We use superconformal symmetry to
disentangle the contribution of protected operators in the partial wave
decomposition. With this information, we fix the non protected part of such
correlators up to subleading order in the large central charge expansion. We
particularly focus on the triple-trace sector of the correlator and comment on
the connection to the holographic description of these correlators.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19788v1) |
| Enhancing Whisper's Accuracy and Speed for Indian Languages through
  Prompt-Tuning and Tokenization | Kumud Tripathi, Raj Gothi, Pankaj Wasnik |   Automatic speech recognition has recently seen a significant advancement with
large foundational models such as Whisper. However, these models often struggle
to perform well in low-resource languages, such as Indian languages. This paper
explores two novel approaches to enhance Whisper's multilingual speech
recognition performance in Indian languages. First, we propose prompt-tuning
with language family information, which enhances Whisper's accuracy in
linguistically similar languages. Second, we introduce a novel tokenizer that
reduces the number of generated tokens, thereby accelerating Whisper's
inference speed. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that the tokenizer
significantly reduces inference time, while prompt-tuning enhances accuracy
across various Whisper model sizes, including Small, Medium, and Large.
Together, these techniques achieve a balance between optimal WER and inference
speed.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19785v1) |
| Can AI Help with Your Personal Finances? | Oudom Hean, Utsha Saha, Binita Saha |   In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as a
transformative development in artificial intelligence (AI), drawing significant
attention from industry and academia. Trained on vast datasets, these
sophisticated AI systems exhibit impressive natural language processing and
content generation capabilities. This paper explores the potential of LLMs to
address key challenges in personal finance, focusing on the United States. We
evaluate several leading LLMs, including OpenAI's ChatGPT, Google's Gemini,
Anthropic's Claude, and Meta's Llama, to assess their effectiveness in
providing accurate financial advice on topics such as mortgages, taxes, loans,
and investments. Our findings show that while these models achieve an average
accuracy rate of approximately 70%, they also display notable limitations in
certain areas. Specifically, LLMs struggle to provide accurate responses for
complex financial queries, with performance varying significantly across
different topics. Despite these limitations, the analysis reveals notable
improvements in newer versions of these models, highlighting their growing
utility for individuals and financial advisors. As these AI systems continue to
evolve, their potential for advancing AI-driven applications in personal
finance becomes increasingly promising.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19784v1) |
| Machine Learning for Sentiment Analysis of Imported Food in Trinidad and
  Tobago | Cassandra Daniels, Koffka Khan |   This research investigates the performance of various machine learning
algorithms (CNN, LSTM, VADER, and RoBERTa) for sentiment analysis of Twitter
data related to imported food items in Trinidad and Tobago. The study addresses
three primary research questions: the comparative accuracy and efficiency of
the algorithms, the optimal configurations for each model, and the potential
applications of the optimized models in a live system for monitoring public
sentiment and its impact on the import bill. The dataset comprises tweets from
2018 to 2024, divided into imbalanced, balanced, and temporal subsets to assess
the impact of data balancing and the COVID-19 pandemic on sentiment trends. Ten
experiments were conducted to evaluate the models under various configurations.
Results indicated that VADER outperformed the other models in both multi-class
and binary sentiment classifications. The study highlights significant changes
in sentiment trends pre- and post-COVID-19, with implications for import
policies.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19781v1) |
| Tensor Network Estimation of Distribution Algorithms | John Gardiner, Javier Lopez-Piqueres |   Tensor networks are a tool first employed in the context of many-body quantum
physics that now have a wide range of uses across the computational sciences,
from numerical methods to machine learning. Methods integrating tensor networks
into evolutionary optimization algorithms have appeared in the recent
literature. In essence, these methods can be understood as replacing the
traditional crossover operation of a genetic algorithm with a tensor
network-based generative model. We investigate these methods from the point of
view that they are Estimation of Distribution Algorithms (EDAs). We find that
optimization performance of these methods is not related to the power of the
generative model in a straightforward way. Generative models that are better
(in the sense that they better model the distribution from which their training
data is drawn) do not necessarily result in better performance of the
optimization algorithm they form a part of. This raises the question of how
best to incorporate powerful generative models into optimization routines. In
light of this we find that adding an explicit mutation operator to the output
of the generative model often improves optimization performance.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19780v1) |
| Symbolic Approximations to Ricci-flat Metrics Via Extrinsic Symmetries
  of Calabi-Yau Hypersurfaces | Viktor Mirjanić, Challenger Mishra |   Ever since Yau's non-constructive existence proof of Ricci-flat metrics on
Calabi-Yau manifolds, finding their explicit construction remains a major
obstacle to development of both string theory and algebraic geometry. Recent
computational approaches employ machine learning to create novel neural
representations for approximating these metrics, offering high accuracy but
limited interpretability. In this paper, we analyse machine learning
approximations to flat metrics of Fermat Calabi-Yau n-folds and some of their
one-parameter deformations in three dimensions in order to discover their new
properties. We formalise cases in which the flat metric has more symmetries
than the underlying manifold, and prove that these symmetries imply that the
flat metric admits a surprisingly compact representation for certain choices of
complex structure moduli. We show that such symmetries uniquely determine the
flat metric on certain loci, for which we present an analytic form. We also
incorporate our theoretical results into neural networks to achieve
state-of-the-art reductions in Ricci curvature for multiple Calabi-Yau
manifolds. We conclude by distilling the ML models to obtain for the first time
closed form expressions for Kahler metrics with near-zero scalar curvature.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19778v1) |
| Application of normalizing flows to nuclear many-body perturbation
  theory | Pengsheng Wen, Jeremy W. Holt, Albany Blackburn |   Many-body perturbation theory provides a powerful framework to study the
ground state and thermodynamic properties of nuclear matter as well as
associated single-particle potentials and response functions within a
systematic order-by-order expansion. However, computational challenges can
emerge beyond the lowest orders of perturbation theory, especially when
computing both single-particle potentials and response functions, which in
general are complex-valued and require Cauchy principal value calculations of
high-dimensional integrals. We demonstrate that normalizing flows are suitable
for Monte Carlo importance sampling of both regular and irregular functions
appearing in nuclear many-body calculations. Normalizing flows are a class of
machine learning models that can be used to build and sample from complicated
distributions through a bijective mapping from a simple base distribution.
Furthermore, a well-trained model for a certain target integrand can be
efficiently transferred to calculate related integrals with varying physical
conditions. These features can enable more efficient tabulations of nuclear
physics inputs to numerical simulations of supernovae and neutron star mergers
across varying physical conditions and nuclear force models.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19777v1) |
| Analysis of Premature Death Rates in Texas Counties: The Impact of Air
  Quality, Socioeconomic Factors, and COPD Prevalence | Richard Rich, Ernesto Diaz |   Understanding factors contributing to premature mortality is critical for
public health planning. This study examines the relationships between premature
death rates and multiple risk factors across several Texas counties, utilizing
EPA air quality data, Census information, and county health records from recent
years. We analyze the impact of air quality (PM2.5 levels), socioeconomic
factors (median household income), and health conditions (COPD prevalence)
through statistical analysis and modeling techniques. Results reveal COPD
prevalence as a strong predictor of premature death rates, with higher
prevalence associated with a substantial increase in years of potential life
lost. While socioeconomic factors show a significant negative correlation, air
quality demonstrates more complex indirect relationships. These findings
emphasize the need for integrated public health interventions that prioritize
key health conditions while addressing underlying socioeconomic disparities.
 | Healthcare | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19774v1) |
| On the uplift of 4D wormholes in Braneworld models and their 5D
  structure | Thomas Pappas, Theodoros Nakas |   Recent developments in the consistent embedding of general 4D static and
spherically-symmetric spacetimes in arbitrary single-brane braneworld models
[Phys.Rev.D 109 (2024) 4, L041501] initiated the program of studying the bulk
structure of braneworld wormholes. In this article, adopting a completely
generic approach, we derive the general conditions that the metric functions of
any braneworld spacetime must satisfy to describe a wormhole structure in the
bulk. Particular emphasis is placed on clarifying the proper uplift of 4D
wormholes, expressed in terms of various radial coordinates on the brane, and
we demonstrate the important role of the circumferential radius metric function
for the embedding. Additionally, the flare-out conditions for braneworld
wormholes are presented for the first time and are found to differ from the
case of flat extra dimensions. To illustrate the method, we first perform the
uplift into the Randall-Sundrum II braneworld model for three well-known 4D
wormhole spacetimes; the effective braneworld wormhole solutions of
Casadio-Fabbri-Mazzacurati and Bronnikov-Kim, and the Simpson-Visser spacetime.
Subsequently, we study their bulk features by means of curvature invariants,
flare-out conditions, energy conditions and embedding diagrams. Our analysis
reveals that the assumption of a warped extra dimension has non-trivial
implications for the structure of 5D wormholes.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19773v1) |
| Direct estimates of irreversibility from time series | Trevor GrandPre, Gianluca Teza, William Bialek |   The arrow of time can be quantified through the Kullback-Leibler divergence
($D_{KL}$) between the distributions of forward and reverse trajectories in a
system. Many approaches to estimate this rely on specific models, but the use
of incorrect models can introduce uncontrolled errors. Here, we describe a
model-free method that uses trajectory data directly to estimate the evidence
for irreversibility over finite windows of time. To do this we build on
previous work to identify and correct for errors that arise from limited sample
size. Importantly, our approach accurately recovers $D_{KL} = 0$ in systems
that adhere to detailed balance, and the correct nonzero $D_{KL}$ for data
generated by well understood models of nonequilibrium systems. We apply our
method to trajectories of neural activity in the retina as it responds to
naturalistic inputs, and find evidence of irreversibility in single neurons,
emphasizing the non-Markovian character of these data. These results open new
avenues for investigating how the brain represents the arrow of time.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19772v1) |
| Fortran2CPP: Automating Fortran-to-C++ Migration using LLMs via
  Multi-Turn Dialogue and Dual-Agent Integration | Le Chen, Bin Lei, Dunzhi Zhou, Pei-Hung Lin, Chunhua Liao, Caiwen Ding, Ali Jannesari |   Migrating Fortran code to C++ is a common task for many scientific computing
teams, driven by the need to leverage modern programming paradigms, enhance
cross-platform compatibility, and improve maintainability. Automating this
translation process using large language models (LLMs) has shown promise, but
the lack of high-quality, specialized datasets has hindered their
effectiveness. In this paper, we address this challenge by introducing a novel
multi-turn dialogue dataset, Fortran2CPP, specifically designed for
Fortran-to-C++ code migration. Our dataset, significantly larger than existing
alternatives, is generated using a unique LLM-driven, dual-agent pipeline
incorporating iterative compilation, execution, and code repair to ensure high
quality and functional correctness. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our
dataset, we fine-tuned several open-weight LLMs on Fortran2CPP and evaluated
their performance on two independent benchmarks. Fine-tuning on our dataset led
to remarkable gains, with models achieving up to a 3.31x increase in CodeBLEU
score and a 92\% improvement in compilation success rate. This highlights the
dataset's ability to enhance both the syntactic accuracy and compilability of
the translated C++ code. Our dataset and model have been open-sourced and are
available on our public GitHub
repository\footnote{\url{https://github.com/HPC-Fortran2CPP/Fortran2Cpp}}.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19770v1) |
| Canonical bundle formula and a conjecture on certain algebraic fiber
  spaces by Schnell | Hyunsuk Kim |   We interpret a conjecture of Schnell on the equivalence of the non-vanishing
and the Campana--Peternell conjectures, using the canonical bundle formula. As
a result, we improve Schnell's assumption on pseudo-effectivity of the
canonical bundle by adding extra effective divisors supported on the
discriminant locus. We also give an inductive approach and an unconditional
result for fourfolds, using rigid currents. As a side note, we include a proof
that for varieties of Kodaira dimension zero, the rigidity of their canonical
class implies the existence of good minimal models.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19769v1) |
| Generative Video Propagation | Shaoteng Liu, Tianyu Wang, Jui-Hsien Wang, Qing Liu, Zhifei Zhang, Joon-Young Lee, Yijun Li, Bei Yu, Zhe Lin, Soo Ye Kim, Jiaya Jia |   Large-scale video generation models have the inherent ability to
realistically model natural scenes. In this paper, we demonstrate that through
a careful design of a generative video propagation framework, various video
tasks can be addressed in a unified way by leveraging the generative power of
such models. Specifically, our framework, GenProp, encodes the original video
with a selective content encoder and propagates the changes made to the first
frame using an image-to-video generation model. We propose a data generation
scheme to cover multiple video tasks based on instance-level video segmentation
datasets. Our model is trained by incorporating a mask prediction decoder head
and optimizing a region-aware loss to aid the encoder to preserve the original
content while the generation model propagates the modified region. This novel
design opens up new possibilities: In editing scenarios, GenProp allows
substantial changes to an object's shape; for insertion, the inserted objects
can exhibit independent motion; for removal, GenProp effectively removes
effects like shadows and reflections from the whole video; for tracking,
GenProp is capable of tracking objects and their associated effects together.
Experiment results demonstrate the leading performance of our model in various
video tasks, and we further provide in-depth analyses of the proposed
framework.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19761v1) |
| Enhancing Cognitive Diagnosis by Modeling Learner Cognitive Structure
  State | Zhifu Chen, Hengnian Gu, Jin Peng Zhou, Dongdai Zhou |   Cognitive diagnosis represents a fundamental research area within intelligent
education, with the objective of measuring the cognitive status of individuals.
Theoretically, an individual's cognitive state is essentially equivalent to
their cognitive structure state. Cognitive structure state comprises two key
components: knowledge state (KS) and knowledge structure state (KUS). The
knowledge state reflects the learner's mastery of individual concepts, a widely
studied focus within cognitive diagnosis. In contrast, the knowledge structure
state-representing the learner's understanding of the relationships between
concepts-remains inadequately modeled. A learner's cognitive structure is
essential for promoting meaningful learning and shaping academic performance.
Although various methods have been proposed, most focus on assessing KS and
fail to assess KUS. To bridge this gap, we propose an innovative and effective
framework-CSCD (Cognitive Structure State-based Cognitive Diagnosis)-which
introduces a novel framework to modeling learners' cognitive structures in
diagnostic assessments, thereby offering new insights into cognitive structure
modeling. Specifically, we employ an edge-feature-based graph attention network
to represent the learner's cognitive structure state, effectively integrating
KS and KUS. Extensive experiments conducted on real datasets demonstrate the
superior performance of this framework in terms of diagnostic accuracy and
interpretability.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19759v1) |
| Tree tilings in random regular graphs | Sahar Diskin, Ilay Hoshen, Maksim Zhukovskii |   We show that for every $\epsilon>0$ there exists a sufficiently large $d_0\in
\mathbb{N}$ such that for every $d\ge d_0$, \textbf{whp} the random $d$-regular
graph $G(n,d)$ contains a $T$-factor for every tree $T$ on at most
$(1-\epsilon)d/\log d$ vertices. This is best possible since, for large enough
integer $d$, \textbf{whp} $G(n,d)$ does not contain a
$\frac{(1+\epsilon)d}{\log d}$-star factor.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19756v1) |
| "Did my figure do justice to the answer?" : Towards Multimodal Short
  Answer Grading with Feedback (MMSAF) | Pritam Sil, Bhaskaran Raman, Pushpak Bhattacharyya |   Personalized feedback plays a vital role in a student's learning process.
While existing systems are adept at providing feedback over MCQ-based
evaluation, this work focuses more on subjective and open-ended questions,
which is similar to the problem of Automatic Short Answer Grading (ASAG) with
feedback. Additionally, we introduce the Multimodal Short Answer grading with
Feedback (MMSAF) problem over the traditional ASAG feedback problem to address
the scenario where the student answer and reference answer might contain
images. Moreover, we introduce the MMSAF dataset with 2197 data points along
with an automated framework for generating such data sets. Our evaluations on
existing LLMs over this dataset achieved an overall accuracy of 55\% on Level
of Correctness labels, 75\% on Image Relevance labels and a score of 4.27 out
of 5 in correctness level of LLM generated feedback as rated by experts. As per
experts, Pixtral achieved a rating of above 4 out of all metrics, indicating
that it is more aligned to human judgement, and that it is the best solution
for assisting students.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19755v1) |
| AAM-SEALS: Developing Aerial-Aquatic Manipulators in SEa, Air, and Land
  Simulator | William Wang Yang, Karthikeya Kona, Yashveer Jain, Abhinav Bhamidipati, Tomer Atzili, Xiaomin Lin, Yantian Zha |   Current simulators lack the ability to accurately model integrated
environments that encompass sea, air, and land. To address this gap, we
introduce Aerial-Aquatic Manipulators (AAMs) in SEa, Air, and Land Simulator
(SEALS), a comprehensive and photorealistic simulator designed for AAMs to
operate and learn in these diverse environments. The development of AAM-SEALS
tackles several significant challenges, including the creation of integrated
controllers for flying, swimming, and manipulation, and the high-fidelity
simulation of aerial dynamics and hydrodynamics leveraging particle physics.
Our evaluation demonstrates smooth operation and photorealistic transitions
across air, water, and their interfaces. We quantitatively validate the
fidelity of particle-based hydrodynamics by comparing position-tracking errors
across real-world and simulated systems. AAM-SEALS promises to benefit a broad
range of robotics communities, including robot learning, aerial robotics,
underwater robotics, mobile manipulation, and robotic simulators. We will
open-source our code and data to foster the advancement of research in these
fields. Please access our project website at: https:
//aam-seals.github.io/aam-seals-v1/
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19744v1) |
| Flavor Physics at CEPC: a General Perspective | Xiaocong Ai, Wolfgang Altmannshofer, Peter Athron, Xiaozhi Bai, Lorenzo Calibbi, Lu Cao, Yuzhi Che, Chunhui Chen, Ji-Yuan Chen, Long Chen, Mingshui Chen, Shanzhen Chen, Xuan Chen, Shan Cheng, Cheng-Wei Chiang, Andreas Crivellin, Hanhua Cui, Olivier Deschamps, Sébastien Descotes-Genon, Xiaokang Du, Shuangshi Fang, Yu Gao, Li-Sheng Geng, Pablo Goldenzweig, Jiayin Gu, Feng-Kun Guo, Yuchen Guo, Zhi-Hui Guo, Tao Han, Hong-Jian He, Jibo He, Miao He, Yanping Huang, Gino Isidori, Quan Ji, Jianfeng Jiang, Xu-Hui Jiang, Jernej F. Kamenik, Tsz Hong Kwok, Gang Li, Geng Li, Haibo Li, Haitao Li, Hengne Li, Honglei Li, Liang Li, Lingfeng Li, Qiang Li, Shu Li, Xiaomei Li, Xin-Qiang Li, Yiming Li, Yubo Li, Yuji Li, Zhao Li, Hao Liang, Zhijun Liang, Libo Liao, Zoltan Ligeti, Jia Liu, Jianbei Liu, Tao Liu, Yi Liu, Yong Liu, Zhen Liu, Xinchou Lou, Peng-Cheng Lu, Alberto Lusiani, Hong-Hao Ma, Kai Ma, Yaxian Mao, David Marzocca, Juan-Juan Niu, Soeren Prell, Huirong Qi, Sen Qian, Wenbin Qian, Zhuoni Qian, Qin Qin, Ariel Rock, Jonathan L. Rosner, Manqi Ruan, Dingyu Shao, Chengping Shen, Xiaoyan Shen, Haoyu Shi, Liaoshan Shi, Zong-Guo Si, Cristian Sierra, Huayang Song, Shufang Su, Wei Su, Michele Tammaro, En Wang, Fei Wang, Hengyu Wang, Jian Wang, Jianchun Wang, Kun Wang, Lian-Tao Wang, Wei Wang, Xiaolong Wang, Xiaoping Wang, Yadi Wang, Yifang Wang, Yuexin Wang, Xing-Gang Wu, Yongcheng Wu, Rui-Qing Xiao, Ke-Pan Xie, Yuehong Xie, Zijun Xu, Haijun Yang, Hongtao Yang, Lin Yang, Shuo Yang, Zhongbao Yin, Fusheng Yu, Changzheng Yuan, Xing-Bo Yuan, Xuhao Yuan, Chongxing Yue, Xi-Jie Zhan, Kaili Zhang, Liming Zhang, Xiaoming Zhang, Yang Zhang, Yanxi Zhang, Yongchao Zhang, Yu Zhang, Zhen-Hua Zhang, Zhong Zhang, Mingrui Zhao, Qiang Zhao, Xu-Chang Zheng, Yangheng Zheng, Chen Zhou, Pengxuan Zhu, Yongfeng Zhu, Xunwu Zuo, Jure Zupan |   We discuss the landscape of flavor physics at the Circular Electron-Positron
Collider (CEPC), based on the nominal luminosity outlined in its Technical
Design Report. The CEPC is designed to operate in multiple modes to address a
variety of tasks. At the $Z$ pole, the expected production of 4 Tera $Z$ bosons
will provide unique and highly precise measurements of $Z$ boson couplings,
while the substantial number of boosted heavy-flavored quarks and leptons
produced in clean $Z$ decays will facilitate investigations into their flavor
physics with unprecedented precision. We investigate the prospects of measuring
various physics benchmarks and discuss their implications for particle theories
and phenomenological models. Our studies indicate that, with its highlighted
advantages and anticipated excellent detector performance, the CEPC can explore
beauty and $\tau$ physics in ways that are superior to or complementary with
the Belle II and Large-Hadron-Collider-beauty experiments, potentially enabling
the detection of new physics at energy scales of 10 TeV and above. This
potential also extends to the observation of yet-to-be-discovered rare and
exotic processes, as well as testing fundamental principles such as lepton
flavor universality, lepton and baryon number conservation, etc., making the
CEPC a vibrant platform for flavor physics research. The $WW$ threshold scan,
Higgs-factory operation and top-pair productions of the CEPC further enhance
its merits in this regard, especially for measuring the
Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix elements, and Flavor-Changing-Neutral-Current
physics of Higgs boson and top quarks. We outline the requirements for detector
performance and considerations for future development to achieve the
anticipated scientific goals.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19743v1) |
| On dual-projectively equivalent connections associated to second order
  superintegrable systems | Andreas Vollmer |   In projective differential geometry, pre-geodesics of an affine connection
are curves that are geodesics after a reparametrization (the analogous concept
in K\"ahler geometry is known as $J$-planar curves). Similarly, dual-geodesics
on a Riemannian manifold are curves along which the $1$-forms associated to the
velocity are preserved after a reparametrization. Superintegrable systems are
Hamiltonian systems with a large number of independent constants of the motion.
They are said to be second order if the constants of the motion can be chosen
to be quadratic polynomials in the momenta. Famous examples include the
Kepler-Coulomb and the harmonic oscillator systems, which are foundational
models in the Sciences. We show that certain torsion-free affine connections
which are naturally associated to certain second order superintegrable systems
share the same dual-geodesics.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19739v1) |
| Hard Photon Triggered Jets in $p$-$p$ and $A$-$A$ Collisions | C. Sirimanna, Y. Tachibana, A. Majumder, A. Angerami, R. Arora, S. A. Bass, Y. Chen, R. Datta, L. Du, R. Ehlers, H. Elfner, R. J. Fries, C. Gale, Y. He, B. V. Jacak, P. M. Jacobs, S. Jeon, Y. Ji, F. Jonas, L. Kasper, M. Kordell II, A. Kumar, R. Kunnawalkam-Elayavalli, J. Latessa, Y. -J. Lee, R. Lemmon, M. Luzum, S. Mak, A. Mankolli, C. Martin, H. Mehryar, T. Mengel, C. Nattrass, J. Norman, C. Parker, J. -F. Paquet, J. H. Putschke, H. Roch, G. Roland, B. Schenke, L. Schwiebert, A. Sengupta, C. Shen, M. Singh, D. Soeder, R. A. Soltz, I. Soudi, J. Velkovska, G. Vujanovic, X. -N. Wang, X. Wu, W. Zhao |   An investigation of high transverse momentum (high-$p_T$) photon triggered
jets in proton-proton ($p$-$p$) and ion-ion ($A$-$A$) collisions at
$\sqrt{s_{NN}} = 0.2$ and $5.02~\mathrm{TeV}$ is carried out, using the
multistage description of in-medium jet evolution. Monte Carlo simulations of
hard scattering and energy loss in heavy-ion collisions are performed using
parameters tuned in a previous study of the nuclear modification factor
($R_{AA}$) for inclusive jets and high-$p_T$ hadrons. We obtain a good
reproduction of the experimental data for photon triggered jet $R_{AA}$, as
measured by the ATLAS detector, the distribution of the ratio of jet to photon
$p_T$ ($X_{\rm J \gamma}$), measured by both CMS and ATLAS, and the photon-jet
azimuthal correlation as measured by CMS. We obtain a moderate description of
the photon triggered jet $I_{AA}$, as measured by STAR. A noticeable
improvement in the comparison is observed when one goes beyond prompt photons
and includes bremsstrahlung and decay photons, revealing their significance in
certain kinematic regions, particularly at $X_{J\gamma} > 1$. Moreover,
azimuthal angle correlations demonstrate a notable impact of non-prompt photons
on the distribution, emphasizing their role in accurately describing
experimental results. This work highlights the success of the multistage model
of jet modification to straightforwardly predict (this set of) photon triggered
jet observables. This comparison, along with the role played by non-prompt
photons, has important consequences on the inclusion of such observables in a
future Bayesian analysis.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19738v1) |
| Periodically and aperiodically Thue-Morse driven long-range systems:
  from dynamical localization to slow dynamics | Vatsana Tiwari, Devendra Singh Bhakuni, Auditya Sharma |   We investigate the electric-field driven power-law random banded
matrix(PLRBM) model where a variation in the power-law exponent $\alpha$ yields
a delocalization-to-localization phase transition. We examine the periodically
driven PLRBM model with the help of the Floquet operator. The level spacing
ratio and the generalized participation ratio of the Floquet Hamiltonian reveal
a drive-induced fractal phase accompanied by diffusive transport on the
delocalized side of the undriven PLRBM model. On the localized side, the
time-periodic model remains localized - the average spacing ratio corresponds
to Poisson statistics and logarithmic transport is observed in the dynamics.
Extending our analysis to the aperiodic Thue-Morse (TM) driven system, we find
that the aperiodically driven clean long-range hopping model (clean counterpart
of the PLRBM model) exhibits the phenomenon of \textit{exact dynamical
localization} (EDL) on tuning the drive-parameters at special points. The
disordered time-aperiodic system shows diffusive transport followed by
relaxation to the infinite-temperature state on the delocalized side, and a
prethermal plateau with subdiffusion on the localized side. Additionally, we
compare this with a quasi-periodically driven AAH model that also undergoes a
localization-delocalization transition. Unlike the disordered long-range model,
it features a prolonged prethermal plateau followed by subdiffusion to the
infinite temperature state, even on the delocalized side.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19736v1) |
| A General Framework of Brain Region Detection And Genetic Variants
  Selection in Imaging Genetics | Siqiang Su, Zhenghao Li, Long Feng, Ting Li |   Imaging genetics is a growing field that employs structural or functional
neuroimaging techniques to study individuals with genetic risk variants
potentially linked to specific illnesses. This area presents considerable
challenges to statisticians due to the heterogeneous information and different
data forms it involves. In addition, both imaging and genetic data are
typically high-dimensional, creating a "big data squared" problem. Moreover,
brain imaging data contains extensive spatial information. Simply vectorizing
tensor images and treating voxels as independent features can lead to
computational issues and disregard spatial structure. This paper presents a
novel statistical method for imaging genetics modeling while addressing all
these challenges. We explore a Canonical Correlation Analysis based linear
model for the joint modeling of brain imaging, genetic information, and
clinical phenotype, enabling the simultaneous detection of significant brain
regions and selection of important genetic variants associated with the
phenotype outcome. Scalable algorithms are developed to tackle the "big data
squared" issue. We apply the proposed method to explore the reaction speed, an
indicator of cognitive functions, and its associations with brain MRI and
genetic factors using the UK Biobank database. Our study reveals a notable
connection between the caudate nucleus region of brain and specific significant
SNPs, along with their respective regulated genes, and the reaction speed.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19735v1) |
| TooLQit: Leptoquark Models and Limits | Arvind Bhaskar, Yash Chaurasia, Arijit Das, Atirek Kumar, Tanumoy Mandal, Subhadip Mitra, Cyrin Neeraj, Rachit Sharma |   We introduce the leptoquark (LQ) toolkit, TooLQit, which includes
leading-order FeynRules models for all types of LQs and a Python-based
calculator, named CaLQ, to test if a set of parameter points are allowed by the
LHC dilepton searches. The models include electroweak gauge interactions of the
LQs and follow a set of intuitive notations. Currently, CaLQ can calculate the
LHC limits on LQ ($S_1$ and $U_1$) couplings (one or more simultaneously) for
any mass between $1$ and $5$ TeV using a $\chi^2$ method. In this manual for
TooLQit, we describe the FeynRules models and discuss the techniques used in
CaLQ. We outline the workflow to check parameter spaces of LQ models with an
example. We show some illustrative scans for one- and multi-coupling scenarios
for the $U_1$ vector LQ. The TooLQit code is available at
https://github.com/rsrchtsm/TooLQit
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19729v1) |
| Learning to Forget: Bayesian Time Series Forecasting using Recurrent
  Sparse Spectrum Signature Gaussian Processes | Csaba Tóth, Masaki Adachi, Michael A. Osborne, Harald Oberhauser |   The signature kernel is a kernel between time series of arbitrary length and
comes with strong theoretical guarantees from stochastic analysis. It has found
applications in machine learning such as covariance functions for Gaussian
processes. A strength of the underlying signature features is that they provide
a structured global description of a time series. However, this property can
quickly become a curse when local information is essential and forgetting is
required; so far this has only been addressed with ad-hoc methods such as
slicing the time series into subsegments. To overcome this, we propose a
principled, data-driven approach by introducing a novel forgetting mechanism
for signatures. This allows the model to dynamically adapt its context length
to focus on more recent information. To achieve this, we revisit the recently
introduced Random Fourier Signature Features, and develop Random Fourier
Decayed Signature Features (RFDSF) with Gaussian processes (GPs). This results
in a Bayesian time series forecasting algorithm with variational inference,
that offers a scalable probabilistic algorithm that processes and transforms a
time series into a joint predictive distribution over time steps in one pass
using recurrence. For example, processing a sequence of length $10^4$ steps in
$\approx 10^{-2}$ seconds and in $< 1\text{GB}$ of GPU memory. We demonstrate
that it outperforms other GP-based alternatives and competes with
state-of-the-art probabilistic time series forecasting algorithms.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19727v1) |
| Can Large Language Models Adapt to Other Agents In-Context? | Matthew Riemer, Zahra Ashktorab, Djallel Bouneffouf, Payel Das, Miao Liu, Justin D. Weisz, Murray Campbell |   As the research community aims to build better AI assistants that are more
dynamic and personalized to the diversity of humans that they interact with,
there is increased interest in evaluating the theory of mind capabilities of
large language models (LLMs). Indeed, several recent studies suggest that LLM
theory of mind capabilities are quite impressive, approximating human-level
performance. Our paper aims to rebuke this narrative and argues instead that
past studies were not directly measuring agent performance, potentially leading
to findings that are illusory in nature as a result. We draw a strong
distinction between what we call literal theory of mind i.e. measuring the
agent's ability to predict the behavior of others and functional theory of mind
i.e. adapting to agents in-context based on a rational response to predictions
of their behavior. We find that top performing open source LLMs may display
strong capabilities in literal theory of mind, depending on how they are
prompted, but seem to struggle with functional theory of mind -- even when
partner policies are exceedingly simple. Our work serves to highlight the
double sided nature of inductive bias in LLMs when adapting to new situations.
While this bias can lead to strong performance over limited horizons, it often
hinders convergence to optimal long-term behavior.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19726v1) |
| Exploring low-rank structure for an inverse scattering problem with
  far-field data | Yuyuan Zhou, Lorenzo Audibert, Shixu Meng, Bo Zhang |   The inverse scattering problem exhibits an inherent low-rank structure due to
its ill-posed nature; however developing low-rank structures for the inverse
scattering problem remains challenging. In this work, we introduce a novel
low-rank structure tailored for solving the inverse scattering problem. The
particular low-rank structure is given by the generalized prolate spheroidal
wave functions, computed stably and accurately via a Sturm-Liouville problem.
We first process the far-field data to obtain a post-processed data set within
a disk domain. Subsequently, the post-processed data are projected onto a
low-rank space given by the low-rank structure. The unknown is approximately
solved in this low-rank space, by dropping higher-order terms. The low-rank
structure leads to a H\"{o}lder-logarithmic type stability estimate for
arbitrary unknown functions, and a Lipschitz stability estimate for unknowns
belonging to a finite dimensional low-rank space. Various numerical experiments
are conducted to validate its performance, encompassing assessments of
resolution capability, robustness against randomly added noise and modeling
errors, and demonstration of increasing stability.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19724v1) |
| OS-Genesis: Automating GUI Agent Trajectory Construction via Reverse
  Task Synthesis | Qiushi Sun, Kanzhi Cheng, Zichen Ding, Chuanyang Jin, Yian Wang, Fangzhi Xu, Zhenyu Wu, Chengyou Jia, Liheng Chen, Zhoumianze Liu, Ben Kao, Guohao Li, Junxian He, Yu Qiao, Zhiyong Wu |   Graphical User Interface (GUI) agents powered by Vision-Language Models
(VLMs) have demonstrated human-like computer control capability. Despite their
utility in advancing digital automation, a critical bottleneck persists:
collecting high-quality trajectory data for training. Common practices for
collecting such data rely on human supervision or synthetic data generation
through executing pre-defined tasks, which are either resource-intensive or
unable to guarantee data quality. Moreover, these methods suffer from limited
data diversity and significant gaps between synthetic data and real-world
environments. To address these challenges, we propose OS-Genesis, a novel GUI
data synthesis pipeline that reverses the conventional trajectory collection
process. Instead of relying on pre-defined tasks, OS-Genesis enables agents
first to perceive environments and perform step-wise interactions, then
retrospectively derive high-quality tasks to enable trajectory-level
exploration. A trajectory reward model is then employed to ensure the quality
of the generated trajectories. We demonstrate that training GUI agents with
OS-Genesis significantly improves their performance on highly challenging
online benchmarks. In-depth analysis further validates OS-Genesis's efficiency
and its superior data quality and diversity compared to existing synthesis
methods. Our codes, data, and checkpoints are available at
\href{https://qiushisun.github.io/OS-Genesis-Home/}{OS-Genesis Homepage}.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19723v1) |
| The branching models of Kwon and Sundaram via flagged hives | Sathish Kumar, Jacinta Torres |   We prove a bijection between the branching models of Kwon and Sundaram,
conjectured previously by Lenart-Lecouvey. To do so, we use a symmetry of
Littlewood-Richardson coefficients in terms of the hive model. Along the way,
we obtain a new branching model in terms of flagged hives.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19721v1) |
| Sharpening Neural Implicit Functions with Frequency Consolidation Priors | Chao Chen, Yu-Shen Liu, Zhizhong Han |   Signed Distance Functions (SDFs) are vital implicit representations to
represent high fidelity 3D surfaces. Current methods mainly leverage a neural
network to learn an SDF from various supervisions including signed distances,
3D point clouds, or multi-view images. However, due to various reasons
including the bias of neural network on low frequency content, 3D unaware
sampling, sparsity in point clouds, or low resolutions of images, neural
implicit representations still struggle to represent geometries with high
frequency components like sharp structures, especially for the ones learned
from images or point clouds. To overcome this challenge, we introduce a method
to sharpen a low frequency SDF observation by recovering its high frequency
components, pursuing a sharper and more complete surface. Our key idea is to
learn a mapping from a low frequency observation to a full frequency coverage
in a data-driven manner, leading to a prior knowledge of shape consolidation in
the frequency domain, dubbed frequency consolidation priors. To better
generalize a learned prior to unseen shapes, we introduce to represent
frequency components as embeddings and disentangle the embedding of the low
frequency component from the embedding of the full frequency component. This
disentanglement allows the prior to generalize on an unseen low frequency
observation by simply recovering its full frequency embedding through a
test-time self-reconstruction. Our evaluations under widely used benchmarks or
real scenes show that our method can recover high frequency component and
produce more accurate surfaces than the latest methods. The code, data, and
pre-trained models are available at \url{https://github.com/chenchao15/FCP}.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19720v1) |
| Trading Off Energy Storage and Payload -- An Analytical Model for
  Freight Train Configuration | Max T. M. Ng, Adrian Hernandez, Pablo L. Durango-Cohen, Hani S. Mahmassani |   To support planning of alternative fuel technology (e.g., battery-electric
locomotives) deployment for decarbonizing non-electrified freight rail, we
develop a convex optimization formulation with a closed-form solution to
determine the optimal number of energy storage tender cars in a train. The
formulation shares a similar structure to an Economic Order Quantity (EOQ)
model. For given market characteristics, cost forecasts, and technology
parameters, our model captures the trade-offs between inventory carrying costs
associated with trip times (including delays due to charging/refueling) and
ordering costs associated with train dispatch and operation (energy, amortized
equipment, and labor costs). To illustrate the framework, we find the optimal
number of battery-electric energy tender cars in 22,501 freight markets
(origin-destination pairs and commodities) for U.S. Class I railroads. The
results display heterogeneity in optimal configurations with lighter, yet more
time-sensitive shipments (e.g., intermodal) utilizing more battery tender cars.
For heavier commodities (e.g., coal) with lower holding costs, single battery
tender car configurations are generally optimal. The results also show that the
optimal train configurations are sensitive to delays associated with recharging
or swapping tender cars.
 | Finance | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19719v1) |
| Text2Insight: Transform natural language text into insights seamlessly
  using multi-model architecture | Pradeep Sain |   The growing demand for dynamic, user-centric data analysis and visualization
is evident across domains like healthcare, finance, and research. Traditional
visualization tools often fail to meet individual user needs due to their
static and predefined nature. To address this gap, Text2Insight is introduced
as an innovative solution that delivers customized data analysis and
visualizations based on user-defined natural language requirements. Leveraging
a multi-model architecture, Text2Insight transforms user inputs into actionable
insights and dynamic visualizations.
  The methodology begins with analyzing the input dataset to extract structural
details such as columns and values. A pre-trained Llama3 model converts the
user's natural language query into an SQL query, which is further refined using
a Named Entity Recognition (NER) model for accuracy. A chart predictor
determines the most suitable visualization type, while the Llama3 model
generates insights based on the SQL query's results. The output is a
user-friendly and visually informative chart. To enhance analysis capabilities,
the system integrates a question-answering model and a predictive model using
the BERT framework. These models provide insights into historical data and
predict future trends.
  Performance evaluation of Text2Insight demonstrates its effectiveness,
achieving high accuracy (99%), precision (100%), recall (99%), and F1-score
(99%), with a BLEU score of 0.5. The question-answering model attained an
accuracy of 89% and the predictive model achieved 70% accuracy. These results
validate Text2Insight as a robust and viable solution for transforming natural
language text into dynamic, user-specific data analysis and visualizations.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19718v1) |
| Entanglement-Driven Energy Exchange in a Two-Qubit Quantum Battery | Ahmed A. Zahia, M. Y. Abd-Rabbou, Ahmed M. Megahed |   This study investigates the dynamics of quantum batteries (QBs), focusing on
the pivotal role of quantum entanglement in mediating inter-cellular energy
transfer within a two-cell configuration (two-qubit), wherein one cell is
directly coupled to the charging source. Employing the Lindblad master equation
to model the system's evolution, the influence of coherent state amplitudes,
detuning, inter-cellular coupling strength, and dissipation rates on stored
energy, energy fluctuations, concurrence-quantified entanglement, and their
parametric interrelations is scrutinized. Our results indicate a direct
correlation between the degree of entanglement and energy transfer efficiency
between the qubits. Specifically, the stronger the entanglement between primary
cell, which is connected to the charger, and secondary cell, the more
effectively energy is transferred. This demonstrates that enhanced entanglement
significantly facilitates energy transfer between the two qubits.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19715v1) |
| ProKAN: Progressive Stacking of Kolmogorov-Arnold Networks for Efficient
  Liver Segmentation | Bhavesh Gyanchandani, Aditya Oza, Abhinav Roy |   The growing need for accurate and efficient 3D identification of tumors,
particularly in liver segmentation, has spurred considerable research into deep
learning models. While many existing architectures offer strong performance,
they often face challenges such as overfitting and excessive computational
costs. An adjustable and flexible architecture that strikes a balance between
time efficiency and model complexity remains an unmet requirement. In this
paper, we introduce proKAN, a progressive stacking methodology for
Kolmogorov-Arnold Networks (KANs) designed to address these challenges. Unlike
traditional architectures, proKAN dynamically adjusts its complexity by
progressively adding KAN blocks during training, based on overfitting behavior.
This approach allows the network to stop growing when overfitting is detected,
preventing unnecessary computational overhead while maintaining high accuracy.
Additionally, proKAN utilizes KAN's learnable activation functions modeled
through B-splines, which provide enhanced flexibility in learning complex
relationships in 3D medical data. Our proposed architecture achieves
state-of-the-art performance in liver segmentation tasks, outperforming
standard Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs) and fixed KAN architectures. The
dynamic nature of proKAN ensures efficient training times and high accuracy
without the risk of overfitting. Furthermore, proKAN provides better
interpretability by allowing insight into the decision-making process through
its learnable coefficients. The experimental results demonstrate a significant
improvement in accuracy, Dice score, and time efficiency, making proKAN a
compelling solution for 3D medical image segmentation tasks.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19713v1) |
| From Elements to Design: A Layered Approach for Automatic Graphic Design
  Composition | Jiawei Lin, Shizhao Sun, Danqing Huang, Ting Liu, Ji Li, Jiang Bian |   In this work, we investigate automatic design composition from multimodal
graphic elements. Although recent studies have developed various generative
models for graphic design, they usually face the following limitations: they
only focus on certain subtasks and are far from achieving the design
composition task; they do not consider the hierarchical information of graphic
designs during the generation process. To tackle these issues, we introduce the
layered design principle into Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) and propose a
novel approach, called LaDeCo, to accomplish this challenging task.
Specifically, LaDeCo first performs layer planning for a given element set,
dividing the input elements into different semantic layers according to their
contents. Based on the planning results, it subsequently predicts element
attributes that control the design composition in a layer-wise manner, and
includes the rendered image of previously generated layers into the context.
With this insightful design, LaDeCo decomposes the difficult task into smaller
manageable steps, making the generation process smoother and clearer. The
experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of LaDeCo in design
composition. Furthermore, we show that LaDeCo enables some interesting
applications in graphic design, such as resolution adjustment, element filling,
design variation, etc. In addition, it even outperforms the specialized models
in some design subtasks without any task-specific training.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19712v1) |
| High precision spectroscopy of trilobite Rydberg molecules | Markus Exner, Rohan Srikumar, Richard Blättner, Matthew T. Eiles, Peter Schmelcher, Herwig Ott |   We perform three-photon photoassociation to obtain high resolution spectra of
$^{87}$Rb trilobite dimers for the principal quantum numbers $n = 22,24,25,26$,
and 27. The large binding energy of the molecules in combination with a
relative spectroscopic resolution of $10^{-4}$ provides a rigorous benchmark
for existing theoretical models. A recently developed Green's function
framework, which circumvents the convergence issues that afflicted previous
studies,, is employed to theoretically reproduce the vibrational spectrum of
the molecule with high accuracy. The relatively large molecular binding energy
are primarily determined by the low energy $S$-wave electron-atom scattering
length, thereby allowing us to extract the $^3S_1$ scattering phase shift with
unprecedented accuracy, at low energy regimes inaccessible to free electrons.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19710v1) |
| Toward Adaptive Reasoning in Large Language Models with Thought Rollback | Sijia Chen, Baochun Li |   Large language models (LLMs) have been routinely used to solve various tasks
using step-by-step reasoning. However, the structure of intermediate reasoning
steps, or thoughts, is rigid and unidirectional, such as chains, trees, or
acyclic-directed graphs. Consequently, the resulting inflexible and
forward-only reasoning may not address challenging tasks and fail when the LLM
frequently gives false responses, i.e., ``hallucinations''. This paper proposes
a new reasoning framework, called Thought Rollback (TR), allowing LLMs to
adaptively build thought structure while maintaining effective reasoning toward
problem-solving under ``hallucinations''. The core mechanism of TR is rolling
back thoughts, which allows LLMs to perform error analysis on thoughts, and
thus roll back to any previously mistaken thought for revision. Subsequently,
by including such trial-and-error in the prompt to guide the LLM, each rollback
leads to one more reliable reasoning path. Therefore, starting with a simple
prompt without human annotations, LLM with TR adaptively and gradually explores
thoughts for a correct solution. Comprehensive experiments on mathematical
problems and multi-task reasoning demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance
of TR in terms of problem-solving rate and interaction cost. For instance, the
solving rate of GPT-4 with TR outperforms the current best by $9\%$ on the MATH
dataset.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19707v1) |
| Reparameterization Invariance of FRW Model: Supervariable and BRST
  Approaches | B. Chauhan, R. Tripathi |   We perform the Becchi-Rouet-Stora-Tyutin (BRST) quantization of a (0 +
1)-dimensional non-interacting cosmological Friedmann-Robertson-Walker (FRW)
model. This quantization leverages the classical infinitesimal and continuous
reparameterization symmetry transformations of the system. To derive the
nilpotent reparameterization invariant (anti-)BRST symmetry transformations for
the scale factor and corresponding momentum variables of the FRW model, we
employ the modified Bonora-Tonin supervariable approach (MBTSA) to BRST
formalism. Through this approach, we also establish the (anti-)BRST invariant
Curci-Ferrari (CF)-type restriction for this cosmological reparameterization
invariant model. Further, we obtain the nilpotent (anti-)BRST symmetry
transformations for other variables within the model using the (anti-)chiral
supervariable approach (ACSA) to BRST formalism. Within the framework of ACSA,
the CF-type restriction is demonstrated through two key aspects: (i) the
invariance of the coupled Lagrangians under symmetry transformations, and (ii)
the absolute anticommutativity of the conserved (anti-)BRST charges. Notably,
applying the MBTSA to a physical cosmological system, specifically a
one-dimensional one, constitutes a novel contribution to this work.
Additionally, in the application of ACSA, we restrict our analysis to
(anti-)chiral super expansions of supervariables, leading to the unique
observation of the absolute anticommutativity of the (anti-)BRST charges.
Moreover, we highlight that the CF-type restriction demonstrates a universal
nature, remaining consistent across any reparameterization invariant models in
D-dimensional spacetime.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19704v1) |
| Magnetic fields on different spatial scales of the L328 cloud | Shivani Gupta, Archana Soam, Janik Karoly, Chang Won Lee, Maheswar G |   L328 core has three sub-cores S1, S2, and S3, among which the sub-core S2
contains L328-IRS, a Very Low Luminosity Object (VeLLO), which shows a CO
bipolar outflow. Earlier investigations of L328 mapped cloud/envelope
(parsec-scale) magnetic fields (B-fields). In this work, we used JCMT/POL-2
submillimeter (sub-mm) polarisation measurements at 850 $\mu$m to map
core-scale B-fields in L328. The B-fields were found to be ordered and
well-connected from cloud to core-scales, i.e., from parsec- to
sub-parsec-scale. The connection in B-field geometry is shown using $Planck$
dust polarisation maps to trace large-scale B-fields, optical and near-infrared
(NIR) polarisation observations to trace B-fields in the cloud and envelope,
and 850 $\mu$m polarisation mapping core-scale field geometry. The core-scale
B-field strength, estimated using the modified Davis-Chandrasekhar-Fermi
relation, was found to be 50.5 $\pm$ 9.8 $\mu$G, which is $\sim$2.5 times
higher than the envelope B-field strength found in previous studies. This
indicates that B-fields are getting stronger on smaller (sub-parsec) scales.
The mass-to-flux ratio of 1.1 $\pm$ 0.2 suggests that the core is magnetically
transcritical. The energy budget in the L328 core was also estimated, revealing
that the gravitational, magnetic, and non-thermal kinetic energies were
comparable with each other, while thermal energy was significantly lower.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19701v1) |
| An Integrated Optimization and Deep Learning Pipeline for Predicting
  Live Birth Success in IVF Using Feature Optimization and Transformer-Based
  Models | Arezoo Borji, Hossam Haick, Birgit Pohn, Antonia Graf, Jana Zakall, S M Ragib Shahriar Islam, Gernot Kronreif, Daniel Kovatchki, Heinz Strohmer, Sepideh Hatamikia |   In vitro fertilization (IVF) is a widely utilized assisted reproductive
technology, yet predicting its success remains challenging due to the
multifaceted interplay of clinical, demographic, and procedural factors. This
study develops a robust artificial intelligence (AI) pipeline aimed at
predicting live birth outcomes in IVF treatments. The pipeline uses anonymized
data from 2010 to 2018, obtained from the Human Fertilization and Embryology
Authority (HFEA). We evaluated the prediction performance of live birth success
as a binary outcome (success/failure) by integrating different feature
selection methods, such as principal component analysis (PCA) and particle
swarm optimization (PSO), with different traditional machine learning-based
classifiers including random forest (RF) and decision tree, as well as deep
learning-based classifiers including custom transformer-based model and a tab
transformer model with an attention mechanism. Our research demonstrated that
the best performance was achieved by combining PSO for feature selection with
the TabTransformer-based deep learning model, yielding an accuracy of 99.50%
and an AUC of 99.96%, highlighting its significant performance to predict live
births. This study establishes a highly accurate AI pipeline for predicting
live birth outcomes in IVF, demonstrating its potential to enhance personalized
fertility treatments.
 | Healthcare | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19696v1) |
| Nonperturbative effects in triple-differential dijet and Z+jet
  production at the LHC | Stefan Gieseke, Maximilian Horzela, Manjit Kaur, Dari Leonardi, Klaus Rabbertz, Aayushi Singla, Cedric Verstege |   In comparisons of precision collider data to the most accurate highest-order
calculations in perturbative quantum chromodynamics (QCD), it is required to
correct for nonperturbative effects. Such effects are typically studied using
Monte Carlo event generators that complement fixed-order predictions with
perturbative parton showers and models for the nonperturbative effects of the
Underlying Event and hadronisation. Thereby, the final state of collision
events can be predicted at the level of stable particles, which serve as input
for full detector simulations.
  This article investigates the impact of nonperturbative effects on two
processes that may be used for precision determinations of the strong coupling
constant and the proton structure: the triple-differential dijet and Z+jet
production. While nonperturbative effects impact both processes, significant
differences among them are observed and further investigated. Indications are
found that the Underlying Event and hadronisation cannot fully explain these
differences and the perturbative modelling may play a significant role as well.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19694v1) |
| Wannier states and spin supersolid physics in the triangular
  antiferromagnet K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$ | M. Zhu, Leandro M. Chinellato, V. Romerio, N. Murai, S. Ohira-Kawamura, Christian Balz, Z. Yan, S. Gvasaliya, Yasuyuki Kato, C. D. Batista, A. Zheludev |   We use a combination of ultra-high-resolution inelastic neutron scattering
and Monte Carlo numerical simulations to study the thermodynamics and the
structure of spin excitations in the spin-supersolid phase of the triangular
lattice XXZ easy axis antiferromagnet K$_2$Co(SeO$_3$)$_2$ and its evolution in
a magnetic field. BKT transitions heralding the onset of Ising and supersolid
order are detected. Above the supersolid phase the value of Wannier entropy is
experimentally recovered. At low temperatures, with an experimental resolution
of about 23 $\mu$eV, no discrete coherent magnon modes are resolved within a
broad continuum of scattering. In addition to gapless excitations, a
pseudo-Goldstone mode with a small energy gap of 0.06 meV is found. A second
excitation continuum is seen at higher energy, in place of single-spin-flip
excitations of the Ising model. In applied fields the continuum gradually
morphs into coherent spin waves, with the Goldstone and pseudo-Goldstone
sectors showing distinct evolution. The agreement between experiment and
numerical simulations is excellent on the quantitative level.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19693v1) |
| Electric Vehicle Charging Network Design under Congestion | Antoine Deza, Kai Huang, Carlos Aníbal Suárez |   This paper presents an extension of a recently introduced multistage
stochastic integer model designed for optimizing the deployment of charging
stations under uncertainty. A key contribution of this work is incorporating
additional constraints accounting for congestion management at charging
stations. The solution approach combines a greedy heuristic with a
branch-and-price algorithm, enabling the efficient handling of medium
instances. In the branch-and-price algorithm, when the solution to the
restricted master problem is not integer, a greedy heuristic and a local search
procedure are conducted to obtain feasible solutions. Computational experiments
illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19689v1) |
| Emergent cell migration from cell shape deformations and T1 transitions | Harish P. Jain, Richard D. J. G. Ho, Luiza Angheluta |   T1 transitions, which are localised cell rearrangements, play an important
role in the fluidization of epithelial monolayers. Using a multi-phase field
model and an active elastic solid model, we show that although each cell
undergoes T1 transitions in time as uncorrelated, random events, the spatial
distribution of these events is highly correlated and is dependent on cell
shape. T1 transitions have a dual effect: cells losing neighbours tend to relax
their shape, while those gaining neighbours tend to elongate. By analysing the
statistics of successive T1 transitions undergone by a deformable cell, we find
asymmetric spatial distributions related to how cells lose or gain neighbours.
These asymmetric spatial patterns of T1 transitions promote directed cell
migration, and form the backbone for coherent flow patterns at tissue scales.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19686v1) |
| A Large-scale Interpretable Multi-modality Benchmark for Facial Image
  Forgery Localization | Jingchun Lian, Lingyu Liu, Yaxiong Wang, Yujiao Wu, Li Zhu, Zhedong Zheng |   Image forgery localization, which centers on identifying tampered pixels
within an image, has seen significant advancements. Traditional approaches
often model this challenge as a variant of image segmentation, treating the
binary segmentation of forged areas as the end product. We argue that the basic
binary forgery mask is inadequate for explaining model predictions. It doesn't
clarify why the model pinpoints certain areas and treats all forged pixels the
same, making it hard to spot the most fake-looking parts. In this study, we
mitigate the aforementioned limitations by generating salient region-focused
interpretation for the forgery images. To support this, we craft a Multi-Modal
Tramper Tracing (MMTT) dataset, comprising facial images manipulated using
deepfake techniques and paired with manual, interpretable textual annotations.
To harvest high-quality annotation, annotators are instructed to meticulously
observe the manipulated images and articulate the typical characteristics of
the forgery regions. Subsequently, we collect a dataset of 128,303 image-text
pairs. Leveraging the MMTT dataset, we develop ForgeryTalker, an architecture
designed for concurrent forgery localization and interpretation. ForgeryTalker
first trains a forgery prompter network to identify the pivotal clues within
the explanatory text. Subsequently, the region prompter is incorporated into
multimodal large language model for finetuning to achieve the dual goals of
localization and interpretation. Extensive experiments conducted on the MMTT
dataset verify the superior performance of our proposed model. The dataset,
code as well as pretrained checkpoints will be made publicly available to
facilitate further research and ensure the reproducibility of our results.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19685v1) |
| Boosting Private Domain Understanding of Efficient MLLMs: A Tuning-free,
  Adaptive, Universal Prompt Optimization Framework | Jiang Liu, Bolin Li, Haoyuan Li, Tianwei Lin, Wenqiao Zhang, Tao Zhong, Zhelun Yu, Jinghao Wei, Hao Cheng, Hao Jiang, Zheqi Lv, Juncheng Li, Siliang Tang, Yueting Zhuang |   Efficient multimodal large language models (EMLLMs), in contrast to
multimodal large language models (MLLMs), reduce model size and computational
costs and are often deployed on resource-constrained devices. However, due to
data privacy concerns, existing open-source EMLLMs rarely have access to
private domain-specific data during the pre-training process, making them
difficult to directly apply in device-specific domains, such as certain
business scenarios. To address this weakness, this paper focuses on the
efficient adaptation of EMLLMs to private domains, specifically in two areas:
1) how to reduce data requirements, and 2) how to avoid parameter fine-tuning.
Specifically, we propose a tun\textbf{\underline{I}}ng-free,
a\textbf{\underline{D}}aptiv\textbf{\underline{E}},
univers\textbf{\underline{AL}} \textbf{\underline{Prompt}} Optimization
Framework, abbreviated as \textit{\textbf{\ourmethod{}}} which consists of two
stages: 1) Predefined Prompt, based on the reinforcement searching strategy,
generate a prompt optimization strategy tree to acquire optimization priors; 2)
Prompt Reflection initializes the prompt based on optimization priors, followed
by self-reflection to further search and refine the prompt. By doing so,
\ourmethod{} elegantly generates the ``ideal prompts'' for processing private
domain-specific data. Note that our method requires no parameter fine-tuning
and only a small amount of data to quickly adapt to the data distribution of
private data. Extensive experiments across multiple tasks demonstrate that our
proposed \ourmethod{} significantly improves both efficiency and performance
compared to baselines.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19684v1) |
| Combining Machine Learning with Recurrence Analysis for resonance
  detection | Ondřej Zelenka, Ondřej Kopáček, Georgios Lukes-Gerakopoulos |   The width of a resonance in a nearly integrable system, i.e. in a
non-integrable system where chaotic motion is still not prominent, can tell us
how a perturbation parameter is driving the system away from integrability.
Although the tool that we are presenting here can be used is quite generic and
can be used in a variety of systems, our particular interest lies in binary
compact object systems known as extreme mass ratio inspirals (EMRIs). In an
EMRI a lighter compact object, like a black hole or a neutron star, inspirals
into a supermassive black hole due to gravitational radiation reaction. During
this inspiral the lighter object crosses resonances, which are still not very
well modeled. Measuring the width of resonances in EMRI models allows us to
estimate the importance of each perturbation parameter able to drive the system
away from resonances and decide whether its impact should be included in EMRI
waveform modeling or not. To tackle this issue in our study we show first that
recurrence quantifiers of orbits carry imprints of resonant behavior,
regardless of the system's dimensionality. As a next step, we apply a long
short-term memory machine learning architecture to automate the resonance
detection procedure. Our analysis is developed on a simple standard map and
gradually we extend it to more complicated systems until finally we employ it
in a generic deformed Kerr spacetime known in the literature as the
Johannsen-Psaltis spacetime.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19683v1) |
| A Hybrid Technique for Plant Disease Identification and Localisation in
  Real-time | Mahendra Kumar Gohil, Anirudha Bhattacharjee, Rwik Rana, Kishan Lal, Samir Kumar Biswas, Nachiketa Tiwari, Bishakh Bhattacharya |   Over the past decade, several image-processing methods and algorithms have
been proposed for identifying plant diseases based on visual data. DNN (Deep
Neural Networks) have recently become popular for this task. Both traditional
image processing and DNN-based methods encounter significant performance issues
in real-time detection owing to computational limitations and a broad spectrum
of plant disease features. This article proposes a novel technique for
identifying and localising plant disease based on the Quad-Tree decomposition
of an image and feature learning simultaneously. The proposed algorithm
significantly improves accuracy and faster convergence in high-resolution
images with relatively low computational load. Hence it is ideal for deploying
the algorithm in a standalone processor in a remotely operated image
acquisition and disease detection system, ideally mounted on drones and robots
working on large agricultural fields. The technique proposed in this article is
hybrid as it exploits the advantages of traditional image processing methods
and DNN-based models at different scales, resulting in faster inference. The F1
score is approximately 0.80 for four disease classes corresponding to potato
and tomato crops.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19682v1) |
| Casimir Radial Parts via Matsuki Decomposition | Philip Schlösser, Mikhail Isachenkov |   We use Matsuki's decomposition for symmetric pairs $(G, H)$ of (not
necessarily compact) reductive Lie groups to construct the radial parts for
invariant differential operators acting on matrix-spherical functions. As an
application, we employ this machinery to formulate an alternative,
mathematically rigorous approach to obtaining radial parts of Casimir operators
that appear in the theory of conformal blocks, which avoids poorly defined
analytical continuations from the compact quotient cases. To exemplify how this
works, after reviewing the presentation of conformal 4-point correlation
functions via matrix-spherical functions for the corresponding symmetric pair,
we for the first time provide a complete analysis of the Casimir radial part
decomposition in the case of Lorentzian signature. As another example, we
revisit the Casimir reduction in the case of conformal blocks for two scalar
defects of equal dimension. We argue that Matsuki's decomposition thus provides
a proper mathematical framework for analysing the correspondence between
Casimir equations and the Calogero-Sutherland-type models, first discovered by
one of the authors and Schomerus.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19681v1) |
| Optimizing Local-Global Dependencies for Accurate 3D Human Pose
  Estimation | Guangsheng Xu, Guoyi Zhang, Lejia Ye, Shuwei Gan, Xiaohu Zhang, Xia Yang |   Transformer-based methods have recently achieved significant success in 3D
human pose estimation, owing to their strong ability to model long-range
dependencies. However, relying solely on the global attention mechanism is
insufficient for capturing the fine-grained local details, which are crucial
for accurate pose estimation. To address this, we propose SSR-STF, a
dual-stream model that effectively integrates local features with global
dependencies to enhance 3D human pose estimation. Specifically, we introduce
SSRFormer, a simple yet effective module that employs the skeleton selective
refine attention (SSRA) mechanism to capture fine-grained local dependencies in
human pose sequences, complementing the global dependencies modeled by the
Transformer. By adaptively fusing these two feature streams, SSR-STF can better
learn the underlying structure of human poses, overcoming the limitations of
traditional methods in local feature extraction. Extensive experiments on the
Human3.6M and MPI-INF-3DHP datasets demonstrate that SSR-STF achieves
state-of-the-art performance, with P1 errors of 37.4 mm and 13.2 mm
respectively, outperforming existing methods in both accuracy and
generalization. Furthermore, the motion representations learned by our model
prove effective in downstream tasks such as human mesh recovery. Codes are
available at https://github.com/poker-xu/SSR-STF.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19676v1) |
| Port-Hamiltonian nonlinear systems | Arjan van der Schaft |   Control theory often takes the mathematical model of the to-be-control-led
system for granted. In contrast, port-Hamiltonian systems theory bridges the
gap between modelling and control for physical systems. It provides a unified
framework for the modelling of complex multiphysics systems. At the same time
it offers powerful tools for analysis and control by identifying the underlying
physical structure, as reflected in, e.g., energy balance and other conserved
quantities. This leads to control schemes that \emph{exploit} the physical
structure, instead of compensating for it. As a result, the derived control
laws tend to be simple, physically interpretable, and robust with respect to
physical parameter variations.
  In this paper, after introducing port-Hamiltonian systems, the focus is on
'control by interconnection' for set-point stabilization of nonlinear physical
systems. Most of this theory is well-established, but novel developments using
'energy ports' instead of 'power ports' are also included.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19673v1) |
| Spectral form factors for curved spacetimes with horizon | Dmitry S. Ageev, Vasilii V. Pushkarev, Anastasia N. Zueva |   The spectral form factor is believed to provide a special type of behavior
called "dip-ramp-plateau" in chaotic quantum systems which originates from the
random matrix theory. A similar behavior could be observed for deterministic
systems, ranging from the Riemann zeta function to the scattering amplitudes of
different types. It has been shown recently, the same behavior is observed for
the spectral form factor when the normal modes of a scalar massless field
theory in the brickwall model of the BTZ black hole are substituted as
eigenvalues of some quantum Hamiltonian. At the same time, the level spacing
distribution of these eigenvalues differs from that associated with the random
matrix theory ensembles. In this paper, we generalize these results considering
the recently proposed generalized spectral form factor for the de Sitter and
BTZ spacetimes. We study the details of this complex-valued form factor for
integrable quantum systems and for backgrounds with a horizon comparing it with
the random matrix theory behavior. As a result, we confirm that the scalar
field normal modes once again exhibit features of chaos.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19672v1) |
| Toward Scalable Multirobot Control: Fast Policy Learning in Distributed
  MPC | Xinglong Zhang, Wei Pan, Cong Li, Xin Xu, Xiangke Wang, Ronghua Zhang, Dewen Hu |   Distributed model predictive control (DMPC) is promising in achieving optimal
cooperative control in multirobot systems (MRS). However, real-time DMPC
implementation relies on numerical optimization tools to periodically calculate
local control sequences online. This process is computationally demanding and
lacks scalability for large-scale, nonlinear MRS. This article proposes a novel
distributed learning-based predictive control (DLPC) framework for scalable
multirobot control. Unlike conventional DMPC methods that calculate open-loop
control sequences, our approach centers around a computationally fast and
efficient distributed policy learning algorithm that generates explicit
closed-loop DMPC policies for MRS without using numerical solvers. The policy
learning is executed incrementally and forward in time in each prediction
interval through an online distributed actor-critic implementation. The control
policies are successively updated in a receding-horizon manner, enabling fast
and efficient policy learning with the closed-loop stability guarantee. The
learned control policies could be deployed online to MRS with varying robot
scales, enhancing scalability and transferability for large-scale MRS.
Furthermore, we extend our methodology to address the multirobot safe learning
challenge through a force field-inspired policy learning approach. We validate
our approach's effectiveness, scalability, and efficiency through extensive
experiments on cooperative tasks of large-scale wheeled robots and multirotor
drones. Our results demonstrate the rapid learning and deployment of DMPC
policies for MRS with scales up to 10,000 units.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19669v1) |
| Gauge Covariant Link Formulation of Twisted N=D=4 and N=4 D=5 Super
  Yang-Mills on a Lattice | Alessandro D'Adda, Noboru Kawamoto, Jun Saito, Kazuhiro Nagata |   We propose a lattice formulation of four dimensional super Yang-Mills model
with a twisted N=4 supersymmetry in a manifestly gauge covariant manner. The
formulation we employ here is a four dimensional extension of the manifestly
gauge covariant method which was developed in our proposals of Dirac-Kahler
twisted N=D=2 and N=4 D=3 super Yang-Mills on a lattice. Twisted N=4
supersymmetry algebra is geometrically realized on a four dimensional lattice
with link supercharges and the use of link (anti-)commutators. Employing
Grassmann parameters with link nature, we explicitly show that the resulting
super Yang-Mills action is invariant under all the supercharges on a lattice
without chiral fermion problems. As a group and algebraic interpretation of the
link approach, we show that promoting bosonic supercovariant derivatives to
their exponentials consistently with the lattice Leibniz rule naturally gives
rise to the notion of gauge covariant link (anti-)commutators. This can be
regarded as a fermionic decomposition of a Lie group element, which may provide
a new methodology in super Lie group and super Lie algebra. We also provide a
five dimensional lift-up of the formulation with exact N=4 SUSY invariance on a
five dimensional lattice.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19666v1) |
| Standardizing reverberation-mapped H$α$ and H$β$ active
  galactic nuclei using radius--luminosity relations involving monochromatic
  and broad H$α$ luminosities | Shulei Cao, Amit Kumar Mandal, Michal Zajaček, Bożena Czerny, Bharat Ratra |   We test the standardizability of a homogeneous sample of 41 lower-redshift
($0.00415\leq z \leq 0.474$) active galactic nuclei (AGNs) reverberation-mapped
(RM) using the broad H$\alpha$ and H$\beta$ emission lines. We find that these
sources can be standardized using four radius$-$luminosity ($R-L$) relations
incorporating H$\alpha$ and H$\beta$ time delays and monochromatic and broad
H$\alpha$ luminosities. Although the $R-L$ relation parameters are well
constrained and independent of the six cosmological models considered, the
resulting cosmological constraints are weak. The measured $R-L$ relations
exhibit slightly steeper slopes than predicted by a simple photoionization
model and steeper than those from previous higher-redshift H$\beta$ analyses
based on larger datasets. These differences likely reflect the absence of
high-accreting sources in our smaller, lower-redshift sample, which primarily
comprises lower-accreting AGNs. The inferred cosmological parameters are
consistent within 2$\sigma$ (or better) with those from better-established
cosmological probes. This contrasts with our earlier findings using a larger,
heterogeneous sample of 118 H$\beta$ AGNs, which yielded cosmological
constraints differing by $\gtrsim 2\sigma$ from better-established cosmological
probes. Our analysis demonstrates that sample homogeneity$-$specifically, the
use of a consistent time-lag determination method$-$is crucial for developing
RM AGNs as a cosmological probe.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19665v1) |
| Non-reciprocal interactions preserve the universality class of Potts
  model | Soumya K. Saha, P. K. Mohanty |   We study the $q$-state Potts model on a square lattice with directed
nearest-neighbor spin-spin interactions that are inherently non-reciprocal.
Both equilibrium and non-equilibrium dynamics are investigated. Analytically,
we demonstrate that non-reciprocal interactions do not alter the critical
exponents of the model under equilibrium dynamics. In contrast, numerical
simulations with selfish non-equilibrium dynamics reveal distinctive behavior.
For $q=2$ (non-reciprocal non-equilibrium Ising model), the critical exponents
remain consistent with those of the equilibrium Ising universality class.
However, for $q=3$ and $q=4$, the critical exponents vary continuously.
Remarkably, a super-universal scaling function -- Binder cumulant as a function
of $\xi_2/\xi_0$, where $\xi_2$ is the second moment correlation length and
$\xi_0$ its maximum value -- remains identical to that of the equilibrium
$q=3,4$ Potts models. These findings indicate that non-reciprocal Potts models
belong to the superuniversality class of their respective equilibrium
counterparts.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19664v1) |
| CAD-GPT: Synthesising CAD Construction Sequence with Spatial
  Reasoning-Enhanced Multimodal LLMs | Siyu Wang, Cailian Chen, Xinyi Le, Qimin Xu, Lei Xu, Yanzhou Zhang, Jie Yang |   Computer-aided design (CAD) significantly enhances the efficiency, accuracy,
and innovation of design processes by enabling precise 2D and 3D modeling,
extensive analysis, and optimization. Existing methods for creating CAD models
rely on latent vectors or point clouds, which are difficult to obtain and
costly to store. Recent advances in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs)
have inspired researchers to use natural language instructions and images for
CAD model construction. However, these models still struggle with inferring
accurate 3D spatial location and orientation, leading to inaccuracies in
determining the spatial 3D starting points and extrusion directions for
constructing geometries. This work introduces CAD-GPT, a CAD synthesis method
with spatial reasoning-enhanced MLLM that takes either a single image or a
textual description as input. To achieve precise spatial inference, our
approach introduces a 3D Modeling Spatial Mechanism. This method maps 3D
spatial positions and 3D sketch plane rotation angles into a 1D linguistic
feature space using a specialized spatial unfolding mechanism, while
discretizing 2D sketch coordinates into an appropriate planar space to enable
precise determination of spatial starting position, sketch orientation, and 2D
sketch coordinate translations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that CAD-GPT
consistently outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in CAD model
synthesis, both quantitatively and qualitatively.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19663v1) |
| A coupled mathematical and numerical model for protein spreading and
  tissue atrophy, applied to Alzheimer's disease | Valentina Pederzoli, Mattia Corti, Davide Riccobelli, Paola F. Antonietti |   The aim of this paper is to introduce, analyse and test in practice a new
mathematical model describing the interplay between biological tissue atrophy
driven by pathogen diffusion, with applications to neurodegenerative disorders.
This study introduces a novel mathematical and computational model comprising a
Fisher-Kolmogorov equation for species diffusion coupled with an elasticity
equation governing mass loss. These equations intertwine through a logistic law
dictating the reduction of the medium's mass. One potential application of this
model lies in understanding the onset and development of Alzheimer's disease.
Here, the equations can describe the propagation of misfolded tau-proteins and
the ensuing brain atrophy characteristic of the disease. To address numerically
the inherited complexities, we propose a Polygonal Discontinuous Galerkin
method on polygonal/polyhedral grids for spatial discretization, while time
integration relies on the theta-method. We present the mathematical model,
delving into its characteristics and propose discretization applied.
Furthermore, convergence results are presented to validate the model,
accompanied by simulations illustrating the application scenario of the onset
of Alzheimer's disease.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19661v1) |
| Minimal dark matter in $SU(5)$ grand unification | Takashi Toma |   Minimal dark matter is an attractive candidate for dark matter because it is
stabilized without the need to impose additional symmetries. It is known that
the mass of the $SU(2)_L$ quintuplet fermion dark matter is predicted to be
around 14 TeV, based on the thermal production mechanism. In this work, we
embed the quintuplet dark matter within non-supersymmetric $SU(5)$ grand
unified theories. We find that two pairs of colored sextet fermions are
required at the $\mathcal{O}(1-10)~\mathrm{TeV}$ scale to achieve gauge
coupling unification, with the unification scale near the reduced Planck scale.
These colored sextet fermions become metastable because their interactions are
suppressed by the unification scale. Our model can be tested through
comprehensive searches for colored sextet fermions in collider experiments, as
well as through indirect and direct detection methods for minimal dark matter.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19660v1) |
| Uniform finiteness of measures of maximal entropy for $C^r$ surface
  diffeomorphisms with large entropy | Chiyi Luo, Dawei Yang |   We prove that for a $C^r$ surface diffeomorphism $f$ satisfying $h_{\rm
top}(f)>\frac{\lambda_{\min}(f)}{r}$, the number of ergodic measures of maximal
entropy is upper semi-continuous at $f$. This result connects to the discussion
in \cite[Remark 1.9]{BCS22}.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19658v1) |
| Quantum Cluster State Model with Haagerup Fusion Category Symmetry | Zhian Jia |   We propose a (1+1)D lattice model, inspired by a weak Hopf algebra
generalization of the cluster state model, which realizes Haagerup fusion
category symmetry and features a tensor product Hilbert space. The construction
begins with a reconstruction of the Haagerup weak Hopf algebra $H_3$ from the
Haagerup fusion category, ensuring that the representation category of $H_3$ is
equivalent to Haagerup fusion category. Utilizing the framework of symmetry
topological field theory (SymTFT), we develop an ultra-thin weak Hopf quantum
double model, characterized by a smooth topological boundary condition. We show
that this model supports Haagerup fusion category symmetry. Finally, we solve
the ground state of the model in terms of a weak Hopf matrix product state,
which serves as a natural generalization of the cluster state, embodying
Haagerup fusion category symmetry.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19657v1) |
| Asymmetrical Reciprocity-based Federated Learning for Resolving
  Disparities in Medical Diagnosis | Jiaqi Wang, Ziyi Yin, Quanzeng You, Lingjuan Lyu, Fenglong Ma |   Geographic health disparities pose a pressing global challenge, particularly
in underserved regions of low- and middle-income nations. Addressing this issue
requires a collaborative approach to enhance healthcare quality, leveraging
support from medically more developed areas. Federated learning emerges as a
promising tool for this purpose. However, the scarcity of medical data and
limited computation resources in underserved regions make collaborative
training of powerful machine learning models challenging. Furthermore, there
exists an asymmetrical reciprocity between underserved and developed regions.
To overcome these challenges, we propose a novel cross-silo federated learning
framework, named FedHelp, aimed at alleviating geographic health disparities
and fortifying the diagnostic capabilities of underserved regions.
Specifically, FedHelp leverages foundational model knowledge via one-time API
access to guide the learning process of underserved small clients, addressing
the challenge of insufficient data. Additionally, we introduce a novel
asymmetric dual knowledge distillation module to manage the issue of asymmetric
reciprocity, facilitating the exchange of necessary knowledge between developed
large clients and underserved small clients. We validate the effectiveness and
utility of FedHelp through extensive experiments on both medical image
classification and segmentation tasks. The experimental results demonstrate
significant performance improvement compared to state-of-the-art baselines,
particularly benefiting clients in underserved regions.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19654v1) |
| Celestial Quantum Error Correction II: From Qudits to Celestial CFT | Alfredo Guevara, Yangrui Hu |   A holographic CFT description of asymptotically flat spacetimes inherits
vacuum degeneracies and IR divergences from its gravitational dual. We devise a
Quantum Error Correcting (QEC) framework to encode both effects as correctable
fluctuations on the CFT dual. The framework is physically motivated by
embedding a chain of qudits in the so-called Klein spacetime and then taking a
continuum $N\to \infty$ limit. At finite $N$ the qudit chain 1) enjoys a
discrete version of celestial symmetries and 2) supports a
Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill (GKP) code. The limit results in hard states with
quantized BMS hair in the celestial torus forming the logical subspace, robust
under errors induced by soft radiation. Technically, the construction leverages
the recently studied $w_{1+\infty}$ hierarchy of soft currents and its
realization from a sigma model in twistor space.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19653v1) |
| FreStega: A Plug-and-Play Method for Boosting Imperceptibility and
  Capacity in Generative Linguistic Steganography for Real-World Scenarios | Kaiyi Pang |   Linguistic steganography embeds secret information in seemingly innocent
texts, safeguarding privacy in surveillance environments. Generative linguistic
steganography leverages the probability distribution of language models (LMs)
and applies steganographic algorithms to generate stego tokens, gaining
attention with recent Large Language Model (LLM) advancements. To enhance
security, researchers develop distribution-preserving stego algorithms to
minimize the gap between stego sampling and LM sampling. However, the reliance
on language model distributions, coupled with deviations from real-world cover
texts, results in insufficient imperceptibility when facing steganalysis
detectors in real-world scenarios. Moreover, LLM distributions tend to be more
deterministic, resulting in reduced entropy and, consequently, lower embedding
capacity. In this paper, we propose FreStega, a plug-and-play method to
reconstruct the distribution of language models used for generative linguistic
steganography. FreStega dynamically adjusts token probabilities from the
language model at each step of stegotext auto-regressive generation, leveraging
both sequential and spatial dimensions. In sequential adjustment, the
temperature is dynamically adjusted based on instantaneous entropy, enhancing
the diversity of stego texts and boosting embedding capacity. In the spatial
dimension, the distribution is aligned with guidance from the target domain
corpus, closely mimicking real cover text in the target domain. By reforming
the distribution, FreStega enhances the imperceptibility of stego text in
practical scenarios and improves steganographic capacity by 15.41\%, all
without compromising the quality of the generated text. FreStega serves as a
plug-and-play remedy to enhance the imperceptibility and embedding capacity of
existing distribution-preserving steganography methods in real-world scenarios.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19652v1) |
| Toward Modality Gap: Vision Prototype Learning for Weakly-supervised
  Semantic Segmentation with CLIP | Zhongxing Xu, Feilong Tang, Zhe Chen, Yingxue Su, Zhiyi Zhao, Ge Zhang, Jionglong Su, Zongyuan Ge |   The application of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) in Weakly
Supervised Semantic Segmentation (WSSS) research powerful cross-modal semantic
understanding capabilities. Existing methods attempt to optimize input text
prompts for improved alignment of images and text, by finely adjusting text
prototypes to facilitate semantic matching. Nevertheless, given the modality
gap between text and vision spaces, the text prototypes employed by these
methods have not effectively established a close correspondence with
pixel-level vision features. In this work, our theoretical analysis indicates
that the inherent modality gap results in misalignment of text and region
features, and that this gap cannot be sufficiently reduced by minimizing
contrast loss in CLIP. To mitigate the impact of the modality gap, we propose a
Vision Prototype Learning (VPL) framework, by introducing more representative
vision prototypes. The core of this framework is to learn class-specific vision
prototypes in vision space with the help of text prototypes, for capturing
high-quality localization maps. Moreover, we propose a regional semantic
contrast module that contrasts regions embedding with corresponding prototypes,
leading to more comprehensive and robust feature learning. Experimental results
show that our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art performance on two
benchmark datasets.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19650v1) |
| Distributed Download from an External Data Source in Faulty Majority
  Settings | John Augustine, Soumyottam Chatterjee, Valerie King, Manish Kumar, Shachar Meir, David Peleg |   We extend the study of retrieval problems in distributed networks, focusing
on improving the efficiency and resilience of protocols in the \emph{Data
Retrieval (DR) Model}. The DR Model consists of a complete network (i.e., a
clique) with $k$ peers, up to $\beta k$ of which may be Byzantine (for $\beta
\in [0, 1)$), and a trusted \emph{External Data Source} comprising an array $X$
of $n$ bits ($n \gg k$) that the peers can query. Additionally, the peers can
also send messages to each other. In this work, we focus on the Download
problem that requires all peers to learn $X$. Our primary goal is to minimize
the maximum number of queries made by any honest peer and additionally optimize
time.
  We begin with a randomized algorithm for the Download problem that achieves
optimal query complexity up to a logarithmic factor. For the stronger dynamic
adversary that can change the set of Byzantine peers from one round to the
next, we achieve the optimal time complexity in peer-to-peer communication but
with larger messages. In broadcast communication where all peers (including
Byzantine peers) are required to send the same message to all peers, with
larger messages, we achieve almost optimal time and query complexities for a
dynamic adversary. Finally, in a more relaxed crash fault model, where peers
stop responding after crashing, we address the Download problem in both
synchronous and asynchronous settings. Using a deterministic protocol, we
obtain nearly optimal results for both query complexity and message sizes in
these scenarios.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19649v1) |
| Enhancing Vision-Language Tracking by Effectively Converting Textual
  Cues into Visual Cues | X. Feng, D. Zhang, S. Hu, X. Li, M. Wu, J. Zhang, X. Chen, K. Huang |   Vision-Language Tracking (VLT) aims to localize a target in video sequences
using a visual template and language description. While textual cues enhance
tracking potential, current datasets typically contain much more image data
than text, limiting the ability of VLT methods to align the two modalities
effectively. To address this imbalance, we propose a novel plug-and-play method
named CTVLT that leverages the strong text-image alignment capabilities of
foundation grounding models. CTVLT converts textual cues into interpretable
visual heatmaps, which are easier for trackers to process. Specifically, we
design a textual cue mapping module that transforms textual cues into target
distribution heatmaps, visually representing the location described by the
text. Additionally, the heatmap guidance module fuses these heatmaps with the
search image to guide tracking more effectively. Extensive experiments on
mainstream benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, achieving
state-of-the-art performance and validating the utility of our method for
enhanced VLT.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19648v1) |
| Chimera: A Block-Based Neural Architecture Search Framework for
  Event-Based Object Detection | Diego A. Silva, Ahmed Elsheikh, Kamilya Smagulova, Mohammed E. Fouda, Ahmed M. Eltawil |   Event-based cameras are sensors that simulate the human eye, offering
advantages such as high-speed robustness and low power consumption. Established
Deep Learning techniques have shown effectiveness in processing event data.
Chimera is a Block-Based Neural Architecture Search (NAS) framework
specifically designed for Event-Based Object Detection, aiming to create a
systematic approach for adapting RGB-domain processing methods to the event
domain. The Chimera design space is constructed from various macroblocks,
including Attention blocks, Convolutions, State Space Models, and
MLP-mixer-based architectures, which provide a valuable trade-off between local
and global processing capabilities, as well as varying levels of complexity.
The results on the PErson Detection in Robotics (PEDRo) dataset demonstrated
performance levels comparable to leading state-of-the-art models, alongside an
average parameter reduction of 1.6 times.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19646v1) |
| VideoMaker: Zero-shot Customized Video Generation with the Inherent
  Force of Video Diffusion Models | Tao Wu, Yong Zhang, Xiaodong Cun, Zhongang Qi, Junfu Pu, Huanzhang Dou, Guangcong Zheng, Ying Shan, Xi Li |   Zero-shot customized video generation has gained significant attention due to
its substantial application potential. Existing methods rely on additional
models to extract and inject reference subject features, assuming that the
Video Diffusion Model (VDM) alone is insufficient for zero-shot customized
video generation. However, these methods often struggle to maintain consistent
subject appearance due to suboptimal feature extraction and injection
techniques. In this paper, we reveal that VDM inherently possesses the force to
extract and inject subject features. Departing from previous heuristic
approaches, we introduce a novel framework that leverages VDM's inherent force
to enable high-quality zero-shot customized video generation. Specifically, for
feature extraction, we directly input reference images into VDM and use its
intrinsic feature extraction process, which not only provides fine-grained
features but also significantly aligns with VDM's pre-trained knowledge. For
feature injection, we devise an innovative bidirectional interaction between
subject features and generated content through spatial self-attention within
VDM, ensuring that VDM has better subject fidelity while maintaining the
diversity of the generated video.Experiments on both customized human and
object video generation validate the effectiveness of our framework.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19645v1) |
| Gravity From a Color Symmetry II: Celestial Color Kinematics for Mass
  and Spin | Alfredo Guevara |   A realization of gravitational amplitudes based in the large $N$ limit of a
certain 2d $SU(N)$ Kac-Moody theory has been recently proposed. We relate this
proposal to Color Kinematics (CK) duality and present an extension to EFT
amplitudes for matter particles with any mass and spin. In particular, we
recast these EFT amplitudes as celestial correlation functions and show they
posses a chiral $w_{1+\infty}$ symmetry algebra if they are minimally coupled
in the bulk. Massive states lead to an off-shell 1-parameter deformation of the
algebra. Finally, we argue that in the limit $S\to\infty$ these states
correspond to the Kerr black hole and we rediscover a classical $w_{1+\infty}$
action of Penrose.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19641v1) |
| Xmodel-2 Technical Report | Wang Qun, Liu Yang, Lin Qingquan, Qu Zhijiu, Jiang Ling |   Xmodel-2 is a 1.2-billion-parameter large language model designed
specifically for reasoning tasks. Its architecture enables different model
scales to share a unified set of hyperparameters, allowing for extensive
experimentation on smaller models and seamless transfer of optimal
configurations to larger models. To maximize training efficiency and stability,
Xmodel-2 employs the WSD learning rate scheduler from MiniCPM. Pretrained on
1.5 trillion tokens from diverse sources, Xmodel-2 achieves state-of-the-art
performance in complex reasoning and agent-based tasks, while maintaining low
training costs. These results highlight the potential of efficient model design
and training strategies in advancing reasoning capabilities. Model checkpoints
and code are publicly available on GitHub at
https://github.com/XiaoduoAILab/Xmodel-2
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19638v1) |
| ReNeg: Learning Negative Embedding with Reward Guidance | Xiaomin Li, Yixuan Liu, Takashi Isobe, Xu Jia, Qinpeng Cui, Dong Zhou, Dong Li, You He, Huchuan Lu, Zhongdao Wang, Emad Barsoum |   In text-to-image (T2I) generation applications, negative embeddings have
proven to be a simple yet effective approach for enhancing generation quality.
Typically, these negative embeddings are derived from user-defined negative
prompts, which, while being functional, are not necessarily optimal. In this
paper, we introduce ReNeg, an end-to-end method designed to learn improved
Negative embeddings guided by a Reward model. We employ a reward feedback
learning framework and integrate classifier-free guidance (CFG) into the
training process, which was previously utilized only during inference, thus
enabling the effective learning of negative embeddings. We also propose two
strategies for learning both global and per-sample negative embeddings.
Extensive experiments show that the learned negative embedding significantly
outperforms null-text and handcrafted counterparts, achieving substantial
improvements in human preference alignment. Additionally, the negative
embedding learned within the same text embedding space exhibits strong
generalization capabilities. For example, using the same CLIP text encoder, the
negative embedding learned on SD1.5 can be seamlessly transferred to
text-to-image or even text-to-video models such as ControlNet, ZeroScope, and
VideoCrafter2, resulting in consistent performance improvements across the
board.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19637v1) |
| A Brief Overlook on Magnetoplasmadynamic Thrusters | Egemen Gover |   This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of Magnetoplasmadynamic
Thrusters (MPDT), examining their working principles, performance
characteristics, and potential applications in space propulsion. The study
focuses on both self-field and applied-field MPDT variants, detailing the
fundamental physics of plasma generation, acceleration mechanisms through
Lorentz forces, and plasma detachment processes. Through mathematical modeling
and experimental data analysis, the paper demonstrates MPDTs' capability to
achieve high specific impulse and efficient propellant utilization compared to
chemical propulsion systems. While highlighting their advantages for deep space
missions and satellite operations, the study also addresses key challenges,
including high power requirements and thermal management issues. The research
concludes that despite current technological limitations, MPDTs show promising
potential for future space exploration, particularly for long-duration missions
requiring sustained thrust.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19636v1) |
| A non-semisimple non-invertible symmetry | Clement Delcamp, Edmund Heng, Matthew Yu |   We investigate the action of a non-semisimple, non-invertible symmetry on
spin chains, whose topological defects encode the category of modules over the
Taft algebra of dimension 4. Sacrificing Hermiticity, we construct several
symmetric, frustration-free, gapped Hamiltonians with real spectra and analyse
their ground state subspaces. Our study reveals two intriguing phenomena.
First, we identify an $\mathbb{S}^1$-parametrised family of symmetric states,
all of which belong to the same gapped phase with respect to the invertible
subsymmetry, yet transform inequivalently under the non-semisimple symmetry.
Second, we find a model where a product state and the so-called W state
spontaneously break the symmetry. We further relate the indistinguishability of
these two states in the infinite-volume limit to the notion that they are
associated with a simple object and its projective cover, respectively, in a
non-semisimple module category.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19635v1) |
| Deep Linear Hawkes Processes | Yuxin Chang, Alex Boyd, Cao Xiao, Taha Kass-Hout, Parminder Bhatia, Padhraic Smyth, Andrew Warrington |   Marked temporal point processes (MTPPs) are used to model sequences of
different types of events with irregular arrival times, with broad applications
ranging from healthcare and social networks to finance. We address shortcomings
in existing point process models by drawing connections between modern deep
state-space models (SSMs) and linear Hawkes processes (LHPs), culminating in an
MTPP that we call the deep linear Hawkes process (DLHP). The DLHP modifies the
linear differential equations in deep SSMs to be stochastic jump differential
equations, akin to LHPs. After discretizing, the resulting recurrence can be
implemented efficiently using a parallel scan. This brings parallelism and
linear scaling to MTPP models. This contrasts with attention-based MTPPs, which
scale quadratically, and RNN-based MTPPs, which do not parallelize across the
sequence length. We show empirically that DLHPs match or outperform existing
models across a broad range of metrics on eight real-world datasets. Our
proposed DLHP model is the first instance of the unique architectural
capabilities of SSMs being leveraged to construct a new class of MTPP models.
 | Healthcare | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19634v1) |
| Concealed Mott Criticality: Unifying the Kondo Breakdown and Doped
  Charge-Transfer Insulators | Louk Rademaker |   I show that the quantum critical points observed in heavy fermions (the
`Kondo breakdown') and in doped cuprates can be understood in terms of
concealed Mott criticality. In this picture, one species of electrons undergoes
a Mott localization transition, in the presence of metallic charge carries. As
is shown in a simple toy model, this results in a Fermi surface jump at the
transition, as well as mass enhancement on both the `large' and `small' Fermi
surface side of the transition, consistent with the experimental observations.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19632v1) |
| Primordial Black Hole Formation from the Upward Step Model: Avoiding
  Overproduction | Xiaoding Wang, Xiao-Han Ma, Yi-Fu Cai |   We investigate the formation of primordial black holes (PBHs) in an upward
step inflationary model, where nonlinearities between curvature perturbations
and field fluctuations introduce a cutoff, deviating from the Gaussian case.
This necessitates a reevaluation of PBH formation, as $\mathcal{R}$ is not the
optimal variable for estimating abundance. Using the extended Press-Schechter
formalism, we show that non-Gaussianity modifies both the curvature
perturbation profile $\mathcal{R}(r)$ and the integration path in probability
space, significantly impacting PBH abundance. Our results reveal that the
abundance initially increases with the parameter $h$, which characterizes the
relaxation stage after the step. However, beyond a critical value ($h \simeq
5.9$), it sharply declines before rising again. Furthermore, we demonstrate
that non-Gaussianity introduces uncertainties in indirect PBH observations via
gravitational waves. Notably, we present an example where a positive $f_{\rm
NL}$ does not necessarily enhance PBH production, contrary to conventional
expectations. Finally, by accounting for non-perturbative effects, we resolve
the overproduction of PBHs suggested by pulsar timing array (PTA) data,
underscoring the critical importance of incorporating non-Gaussianity in future
studies.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19631v1) |
| IMTP: Search-based Code Generation for In-memory Tensor Programs | Yongwon Shin, Dookyung Kang, Hyojin Sung |   Processing-in-DRAM (DRAM-PIM) has emerged as a promising technology for
accelerating memory-intensive operations in modern applications, such as Large
Language Models (LLMs). Despite its potential, current software stacks for
DRAM-PIM face significant challenges, including reliance on hand-tuned
libraries that hinder programmability, limited support for high-level
abstractions, and the lack of systematic optimization frameworks. To address
these limitations, we present IMTP, a search-based optimizing tensor compiler
for UPMEM. Key features of IMTP include: (1) automated searches of the joint
search space for host and kernel tensor programs, (2) PIM-aware optimizations
for efficiently handling boundary conditions, and (3) improved search
algorithms for the expanded search space of UPMEM systems. Our experimental
results on UPMEM hardware demonstrate performance gains of up to 8.21x for
various UPMEM benchmark kernels and 5.33x for GPT-J layers. To the best of our
knowledge, IMTP is the first tensor compiler to provide fully automated,
autotuning-integrated code generation support for a DRAM-PIM system. By
bridging the gap between high-level tensor computation abstractions and
low-level hardware-specific requirements, IMTP establishes a foundation for
advancing DRAM-PIM programmability and enabling streamlined optimization.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19630v1) |
| RecConv: Efficient Recursive Convolutions for Multi-Frequency
  Representations | Mingshu Zhao, Yi Luo, Yong Ouyang |   Recent advances in vision transformers (ViTs) have demonstrated the advantage
of global modeling capabilities, prompting widespread integration of
large-kernel convolutions for enlarging the effective receptive field (ERF).
However, the quadratic scaling of parameter count and computational complexity
(FLOPs) with respect to kernel size poses significant efficiency and
optimization challenges. This paper introduces RecConv, a recursive
decomposition strategy that efficiently constructs multi-frequency
representations using small-kernel convolutions. RecConv establishes a linear
relationship between parameter growth and decomposing levels which determines
the effective kernel size $k\times 2^\ell$ for a base kernel $k$ and $\ell$
levels of decomposition, while maintaining constant FLOPs regardless of the ERF
expansion. Specifically, RecConv achieves a parameter expansion of only
$\ell+2$ times and a maximum FLOPs increase of $5/3$ times, compared to the
exponential growth ($4^\ell$) of standard and depthwise convolutions.
RecNeXt-M3 outperforms RepViT-M1.1 by 1.9 $AP^{box}$ on COCO with similar
FLOPs. This innovation provides a promising avenue towards designing efficient
and compact networks across various modalities. Codes and models can be found
at \url{https://github.com/suous/RecNeXt}.
 | Computer Vision | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19628v1) |
| An impediment to torsion from spectral geometry | Arkadiusz Bochniak, Ludwik Dąbrowski, Andrzej Sitarz, Paweł Zalecki |   Modifications of standard general relativity that bring torsion into a game
have a long-standing history. However, no convincing arguments exist for or
against its presence in physically acceptable gravity models. In this Letter,
we provide an argument based on spectral geometry (using methods of
pseudo-differential calculus) that suggests that the torsion shall be excluded
from the consideration. We demonstrate that there is no well-defined functional
extending to the torsion-full case of the spectral formulation of the Einstein
tensor.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19626v1) |
| Measurement of the branching fraction, polarization, and time-dependent
  $CP$ asymmetry in $B^0 \to ρ^+ρ^-$ decays and constraint on the CKM
  angle $φ_2$ |  Belle II Collaboration, I. Adachi, L. Aggarwal, H. Ahmed, N. Akopov, M. Alhakami, A. Aloisio, N. Althubiti, N. Anh Ky, D. M. Asner, H. Atmacan, V. Aushev, M. Aversano, R. Ayad, V. Babu, N. K. Baghel, P. Bambade, Sw. Banerjee, M. Barrett, M. Bartl, J. Baudot, A. Baur, A. Beaubien, J. Becker, J. V. Bennett, V. Bertacchi, M. Bertemes, E. Bertholet, M. Bessner, S. Bettarini, B. Bhuyan, D. Biswas, A. Bobrov, D. Bodrov, A. Bolz, A. Bondar, J. Borah, A. Boschetti, A. Bozek, M. Bračko, P. Branchini, R. A. Briere, T. E. Browder, A. Budano, S. Bussino, Q. Campagna, M. Campajola, G. Casarosa, C. Cecchi, J. Cerasoli, M. -C. Chang, P. Chang, R. Cheaib, P. Cheema, B. G. Cheon, K. Chilikin, K. Chirapatpimol, H. -E. Cho, K. Cho, S. -J. Cho, S. -K. Choi, S. Choudhury, J. Cochran, L. Corona, J. X. Cui, E. De La Cruz-Burelo, S. A. De La Motte, G. De Nardo, G. De Pietro, R. de Sangro, M. Destefanis, S. Dey, F. Di Capua, J. Dingfelder, Z. Doležal, I. Domínguez Jiménez, T. V. Dong, X. Dong, M. Dorigo, D. Dossett, K. Dugic, G. Dujany, P. Ecker, J. Eppelt, P. Feichtinger, T. Ferber, T. Fillinger, C. Finck, G. Finocchiaro, A. Fodor, F. Forti, B. G. Fulsom, A. Gabrielli, E. Ganiev, M. Garcia-Hernandez, R. Garg, G. Gaudino, V. Gaur, A. Gaz, A. Gellrich, G. Ghevondyan, D. Ghosh, H. Ghumaryan, G. Giakoustidis, R. Giordano, A. Giri, P. Gironella Gironell, A. Glazov, B. Gobbo, R. Godang, O. Gogota, P. Goldenzweig, W. Gradl, E. Graziani, D. Greenwald, Z. Gruberová, Y. Guan, K. Gudkova, I. Haide, T. Hara, C. Harris, K. Hayasaka, S. Hazra, C. Hearty, M. T. Hedges, A. Heidelbach, I. Heredia de la Cruz, M. Hernández Villanueva, T. Higuchi, M. Hoek, M. Hohmann, R. Hoppe, P. Horak, C. -L. Hsu, T. Humair, T. Iijima, K. Inami, N. Ipsita, A. Ishikawa, R. Itoh, M. Iwasaki, D. Jacobi, W. W. Jacobs, E. -J. Jang, Y. Jin, A. Johnson, H. Junkerkalefeld, M. Kaleta, A. B. Kaliyar, J. Kandra, F. Keil, C. Ketter, C. Kiesling, C. -H. Kim, D. Y. Kim, J. -Y. Kim, K. -H. Kim, Y. -K. Kim, K. Kinoshita, P. Kodyš, T. Koga, S. Kohani, K. Kojima, A. Korobov, S. Korpar, E. Kovalenko, R. Kowalewski, P. Križan, P. Krokovny, T. Kuhr, Y. Kulii, R. Kumar, K. Kumara, T. Kunigo, A. Kuzmin, Y. -J. Kwon, S. Lacaprara, K. Lalwani, T. Lam, L. Lanceri, J. S. Lange, T. S. Lau, M. Laurenza, R. Leboucher, F. R. Le Diberder, M. J. Lee, C. Lemettais, P. Leo, L. K. Li, Q. M. Li, W. Z. Li, Y. Li, Y. B. Li, Y. P. Liao, J. Libby, J. Lin, S. Lin, M. H. Liu, Q. Y. Liu, Z. Q. Liu, D. Liventsev, S. Longo, T. Lueck, C. Lyu, Y. Ma, C. Madaan, M. Maggiora, S. P. Maharana, R. Maiti, G. Mancinelli, R. Manfredi, E. Manoni, M. Mantovano, D. Marcantonio, S. Marcello, C. Marinas, C. Martellini, A. Martens, A. Martini, T. Martinov, L. Massaccesi, M. Masuda, K. Matsuoka, D. Matvienko, S. K. Maurya, M. Maushart, J. A. McKenna, F. Meier, D. Meleshko, M. Merola, C. Miller, M. Mirra, S. Mitra, K. Miyabayashi, H. Miyake, G. B. Mohanty, S. Mondal, S. Moneta, H. -G. Moser, R. Mussa, I. Nakamura, M. Nakao, Y. Nakazawa, M. Naruki, Z. Natkaniec, A. Natochii, M. Nayak, G. Nazaryan, M. Neu, S. Nishida, S. Ogawa, R. Okubo, H. Ono, Y. Onuki, G. Pakhlova, S. Pardi, K. Parham, H. Park, J. Park, K. Park, S. -H. Park, A. Passeri, S. Patra, T. K. Pedlar, I. Peruzzi, R. Peschke, R. Pestotnik, L. E. Piilonen, P. L. M. Podesta-Lerma, T. Podobnik, S. Pokharel, C. Praz, S. Prell, E. Prencipe, M. T. Prim, H. Purwar, S. Raiz, K. Ravindran, J. U. Rehman, M. Reif, S. Reiter, M. Remnev, L. Reuter, D. Ricalde Herrmann, I. Ripp-Baudot, G. Rizzo, M. Roehrken, J. M. Roney, A. Rostomyan, N. Rout, Y. Sakai, D. A. Sanders, S. Sandilya, L. Santelj, V. Savinov, B. Scavino, C. Schwanda, A. J. Schwartz, Y. Seino, A. Selce, K. Senyo, J. Serrano, M. E. Sevior, C. Sfienti, W. Shan, X. D. Shi, T. Shillington, J. -G. Shiu, D. Shtol, B. Shwartz, A. Sibidanov, F. Simon, J. Skorupa, R. J. Sobie, M. Sobotzik, A. Soffer, A. Sokolov, E. Solovieva, S. Spataro, B. Spruck, W. Song, M. Starič, P. Stavroulakis, S. Stefkova, R. Stroili, J. Strube, M. Sumihama, K. Sumisawa, N. Suwonjandee, H. Svidras, M. Takizawa, U. Tamponi, K. Tanida, F. Tenchini, A. Thaller, O. Tittel, R. Tiwary, E. Torassa, K. Trabelsi, I. Tsaklidis, I. Ueda, T. Uglov, K. Unger, Y. Unno, K. Uno, S. Uno, P. Urquijo, Y. Ushiroda, S. E. Vahsen, R. van Tonder, K. E. Varvell, M. Veronesi, A. Vinokurova, V. S. Vismaya, L. Vitale, V. Vobbilisetti, R. Volpe, M. Wakai, S. Wallner, M. -Z. Wang, A. Warburton, M. Watanabe, S. Watanuki, C. Wessel, E. Won, X. P. Xu, B. D. Yabsley, S. Yamada, W. Yan, J. Yelton, J. H. Yin, K. Yoshihara, J. Yuan, Y. Yusa, L. Zani, V. Zhilich, J. S. Zhou, Q. D. Zhou, L. Zhu, R. Žlebčík |   We present a measurement of the branching fraction and fraction of
longitudinal polarization of $B^0 \to \rho^+ \rho^-$ decays, which have two
$\pi^0$'s in the final state. We also measure time-dependent $CP$ violation
parameters for decays into longitudinally polarized $\rho^+ \rho^-$ pairs. This
analysis is based on a data sample containing $(387\pm6) \times 10^6$ \BBbar
pairs collected with the Belle~II detector at the SuperKEKB asymmetric-energy
$e^+e^-$ collider in 2019-2022. We obtain ${B}(B^0\to\rho^+\rho^-) = (2.88
^{+0.23}_{-0.22} {}^{+0.29}_{-0.27}) \times 10^{-5}, f_{L} = 0.921
^{+0.024}_{-0.025} {}^{+0.017}_{-0.015}$, $S = -0.26\pm0.19\pm0.08$, and $C =
-0.02\pm0.12^{+0.06}_{-0.05}$, where the first uncertainties are statistical
and the second are systematic. We use these results to perform an isospin
analysis to constrain the CKM angle $\phi_2$ and obtain two solutions; the
result consistent with other Standard Model constraints is $\phi_2 =
(92.6^{+4.5}_{-4.8})^\circ$.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19624v1) |
| Signatures of prediction during natural listening in MEG data? | Sahel Azizpour, Britta U. Westner, Jakub Szewczyk, Umut Güçlü, Linda Geerligs |   The brain uses contextual information and prior knowledge to anticipate
upcoming content during language comprehension. Recent research has shown
predictive signals can be revealed in pre-onset ECoG activity during
naturalistic narrative listening, by building encoding models based on word
embeddings from Large Language Models (LLMs). Similarly, evidence for
long-range predictive encoding has been observed in fMRI data, where
incorporating embeddings for multiple upcoming words in a narrative improves
alignment with brain activity. This study examines whether similar predictive
information can be detected in MEG, a technique with higher temporal resolution
than fMRI but a lower signal-to-noise ratio than ECoG. Our findings indicate
that MEG captures pre-onset representations up to 1 second before word onset,
consistent with ECoG results. However, unlike fMRI findings, incorporating
future word embeddings did not enhance MEG encoding, even for one word into the
future, which suggests that the pre-onset encoding may not reflect predictive
processing. This work demonstrates that MEG combined with LLMs is a valuable
approach for studying language processing in naturalistic narratives and
highlights the need to study further what constitutes evidence for prediction
during natural listening.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19622v1) |
| Topology optimization for particle flow problems using Eulerian-Eulerian
  model with a finite difference method | Chih-Hsiang Chen, Kentaro Yaji |   Particle flow processing is widely employed across various industrial
applications and technologies. Due to the complex interactions between
particles and fluids, designing effective devices for particle flow processing
is challenging. In this study, we propose a topology optimization method to
design flow fields that effectively enhance the resistance encountered by
particles. Particle flow is simulated using an Eulerian-Eulerian model based on
a finite difference method. Automatic differentiation is implemented to compute
sensitivities using a checkpointing algorithm. We formulate the optimization
problem as maximizing the variation of drag force on particles while reducing
fluid power dissipation. Initially, we validate the finite difference flow
solver through numerical examples of particle flow problems and confirm that
the corresponding topology optimization produces a result comparable to the
benchmark problem. Furthermore, we investigate the effects of Reynolds and
Stokes numbers on the optimized flow field. The numerical results indicate that
serpentine flow fields can effectively enhance the variation in particle drag
force.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19619v1) |
| Gradient Weight-normalized Low-rank Projection for Efficient LLM
  Training | Jia-Hong Huang, Yixian Shen, Hongyi Zhu, Stevan Rudinac, Evangelos Kanoulas |   Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance across various
tasks, but the escalating demands on computational resources pose significant
challenges, particularly in the extensive utilization of full fine-tuning for
downstream tasks. To address this, parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT)
methods have been developed, but they often underperform compared to full
fine-tuning and struggle with memory efficiency. In this work, we introduce
Gradient Weight-Normalized Low-Rank Projection (GradNormLoRP), a novel approach
that enhances both parameter and memory efficiency while maintaining comparable
performance to full fine-tuning. GradNormLoRP normalizes the weight matrix to
improve gradient conditioning, facilitating better convergence during
optimization. Additionally, it applies low-rank approximations to the weight
and gradient matrices, significantly reducing memory usage during training.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that our 8-bit GradNormLoRP reduces optimizer
memory usage by up to 89.5% and enables the pre-training of large LLMs, such as
LLaMA 7B, on consumer-level GPUs like the NVIDIA RTX 4090, without additional
inference costs. Moreover, GradNormLoRP outperforms existing low-rank methods
in fine-tuning tasks. For instance, when fine-tuning the RoBERTa model on all
GLUE tasks with a rank of 8, GradNormLoRP achieves an average score of 80.65,
surpassing LoRA's score of 79.23. These results underscore GradNormLoRP as a
promising alternative for efficient LLM pre-training and fine-tuning. Source
code and Appendix:
https://github.com/Jhhuangkay/Gradient-Weight-normalized-Low-rank-Projection-for-Efficient-LLM-Training
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19616v1) |
| The Key Steps and Distinct Performance Trends of Pyrrolic vs. Pyridinic
  M-N-C Catalysts in Electrocatalytic Nitrate Reduction | Qiuling Jiang, Mingyao Gu, Tianyi Wang, Fangzhou Liu, Xin Yang, Di Zhang, Zhijian Wu, Ying Wang, Li Wei, Hao Li |   Electrochemical nitrate reduction reaction(NO3RR)offers a sustainable route
for ambient ammonia synthesis. While metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) single-atom
catalysts have emerged as promising candidates for NO3RR, the
structure-activity relations underlying their catalytic behavior remain to be
elucidated. Through systematic analysis of reported experimental data and
pH-field coupled microkinetic modelling on a reversible hydrogen electrode
(RHE) scale, we reveal that the coordination-dependent activity originates from
distinct scaling relations governed by metal-intermediate interactions.
M-N-Pyrrolic catalysts demonstrate higher turnover frequencies for ammonia
production, whereas M-N-Pyridinic catalysts exhibit broader activity ranges
across the activity volcano plot. Meanwhile, the adsorption and protonation of
nitrate, which is a step often dismissed and/or assumed to be simultaneous in
many previous reports, is identified to be the rate-determining step (RDS) in
NO3RR. Remarkably, our subsequent experimental validation confirms the
theoretical predictions under both neutral and alkaline conditions. This study
offers a comprehensive mechanistic framework for interpreting the
electrocatalytic activity of M-N-C catalysts in NO3RR, showing that a classical
thermodynamic limiting-potential model is not sufficiently accurate to capture
the RDS and the catalytic performance trends of different materials (even on
M-N-Pyrrolic and M-N-Pyridinic catalysts). These findings provide brand new
insights into the reaction mechanism of NO3RR and establish fundamental design
principles for electrocatalytic ammonia synthesis.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19615v1) |
| Net-Baryon Number Probability Distribution As an Indicator of Phase
  Transition | R. N. Rogalyov, V. A. Goy |   The net-baryon number probability distribution and the related pressure and
density are studied in the Cluster Expansion Model (CEM) and the obtained
results are extrapolated to the domain of low temperatures. It is found that
the rate of decrease of the net-baryon number probability mass function
diminishes with the temperature and, in the extensions of the CEM, falls to the
level consistent with the phase transition at large baryon chemical potentials.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19614v1) |
| Anisotropic Band Flattening in Twisted Bilayer of M-Valley MXenes | Kejie Bao, Huan Wang, Zhaochen Liu, jing Wang |   Experimental studies on moir\'e materials have predominantly focused on
twisted hexagonal lattice with low-energy states near the $\Gamma$- or
K-points. These materials, characterized by isotropic low-energy dispersion,
are fundamentally distinct from those with anisotropic properties. Here we
introduce a series of semiconducting transition metal carbides (MXenes)
$M_2$C$T_2$ ($M$ = Ti, Zr, Hf, Sc, Y; $T$ = O, F, Cl) as a novel platform for
M-valley moir\'e materials. Take Ti$_2$CO$_2$ and Zr$_2$CO$_2$ as
representative examples, large-scale \emph{ab initio} calculations show that
their AB-stacked twisted homobilayer features three three-fold rotational
symmetry related M-valleys with time-reserval symmetry and giant anisotropic
band flattening. We derive a simplified moir\'e Hamiltonian for these systems
and conduct a detailed analysis of their band structures, where the origins of
anisotropic band flattening are clearly elucidated. This research broadens the
scope of moir\'e materials, where the valley- and spin-degenerate
two-dimensional array of quasi-one-dimensional system could serve as a
potential platform for realizing many interesting correlated phases.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19613v1) |
| Machine Generated Product Advertisements: Benchmarking LLMs Against
  Human Performance | Sanjukta Ghosh |   This study compares the performance of AI-generated and human-written product
descriptions using a multifaceted evaluation model. We analyze descriptions for
100 products generated by four AI models (Gemma 2B, LLAMA, GPT2, and ChatGPT 4)
with and without sample descriptions, against human-written descriptions. Our
evaluation metrics include sentiment, readability, persuasiveness, Search
Engine Optimization(SEO), clarity, emotional appeal, and call-to-action
effectiveness. The results indicate that ChatGPT 4 performs the best. In
contrast, other models demonstrate significant shortcomings, producing
incoherent and illogical output that lacks logical structure and contextual
relevance. These models struggle to maintain focus on the product being
described, resulting in disjointed sentences that do not convey meaningful
information. This research provides insights into the current capabilities and
limitations of AI in the creation of content for e-Commerce.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19610v1) |
| Achieving Robust Single-Photon Blockade with a Single Nanotip | Jian Tang, Yun-Lan Zuo, Xun-Wei Xu, Ran Huang, Adam Miranowicz, Franco Nori, Hui Jing |   Backscattering losses, due to intrinsic imperfections or external
perturbations that are unavoidable in optical resonators, can severely affect
the performance of practical photonic devices. In particular, for quantum
single-photon devices, robust quantum correlations against backscattering
losses, which are highly desirable for diverse applications, have remained
largely unexplored. Here, we show that single-photon blockade against
backscattering loss, an important purely quantum effect, can be achieved by
introducing a nanotip near a Kerr nonlinear resonator with intrinsic defects.
We find that the quantum correlation of single photons can approach that of a
lossless cavity even in the presence of strong backscattering losses. Moreover,
the behavior of such quantum correlation is distinct from that of the classical
mean-photon number with different strengths of the nonlinearity, due to the
interplay of the resonator nonlinearity and the tip-induced optical coupling.
Our work sheds new light on protecting and engineering fragile quantum devices
against imperfections, for applications in robust single-photon sources and
backscattering-immune quantum devices.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19608v1) |
| Versatile High-Power Monolithic All-Glass Fiber Amplifier for Pulsed
  Signals with a Wide Range of Repetition Rates | Hossein Fathi, Ebrahim Aghayari, Andrey Grishchenko, Amit Yadav, Edik Rafailov, Regina Gumenyuk, Valery Filippov |   This study presents a compact, high-power monolithic all-glass spun tapered
double-clad fiber amplifier for single-stage amplification of narrow linewidth
picosecond pulsed signals from a few tens of mW to several hundred Watts of
average power and MW level of peak power, covering a wide range of repetition
rates. The absence of free-space elements in the amplifier module enhances its
overall reliability by omitting the dependency on the pump alignment and
internal back reflections. The versatile all-glass amplifier module delivers 50
ps pulses with over 2 MW peak power at 1 MHz, 50 ps pulses with over 625 W
average power at 20 MHz, and 20 ps pulses with over 645 W average power at 1
GHz, all exhibiting excellent spectral, spatial, and polarization
characteristics. This monolithic all-glass ultra-large mode area fiber
amplifier is verified as a robust solution for direct amplification of short
pulses attaining high peak/average power laser systems with excellent spectral,
spatial, and polarization characteristics.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19604v1) |
| Let Watermarks Speak: A Robust and Unforgeable Watermark for Language
  Models | Minhao Bai |   Watermarking is an effective way to trace model-generated content. Current
watermark methods cannot resist forgery attacks, such as a deceptive claim that
the model-generated content is a response to a fabricated prompt. None of them
can be made unforgeable without degrading robustness.
  Unforgeability demands that the watermarked output is not only detectable but
also verifiable for integrity, indicating whether it has been modified. This
underscores the necessity and significance of a multi-bit watermarking scheme.
  Recent works try to build multi-bit scheme based on existing zero-bit
watermarking scheme, but they either degrades the robustness or brings a
significant computational burden. We aim to design a novel single-bit watermark
scheme, which provides the ability to embed 2 different watermark signals.
  This paper's main contribution is that we are the first to propose an
undetectable, robust, single-bit watermarking scheme. It has a comparable
robustness to the most advanced zero-bit watermarking schemes. Then we
construct a multi-bit watermarking scheme to use the hash value of prompt or
the newest generated content as the watermark signals, and embed them into the
following content, which guarantees the unforgeability.
  Additionally, we provide sufficient experiments on some popular language
models, while the other advanced methods with provable guarantees do not often
provide. The results show that our method is practically effective and robust.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19603v1) |
| Arbitrarily Fast Tracking Multivariable Least-squares MRAC | Liu Hsu, Ramon R. Costa, Fernando Lizarralde, Alessandro Jacoud Peixoto |   A novel least-squares model-reference direct adaptive control (LS MRAC)
algorithm for multivariable (MIMO) plants is presented. The controller
parameters are directly updated based on the output tracking error. The control
law is crucially modified to reduce the relative degree of the error model to
zero. A comprehensive Lyapunov-based stability analysis as well as a tracking
error convergence characterization is provided demonstrating that the LS MRAC
can achieve arbitrarily fast tracking while maintaining satisfactory parameter
convergence for quite large adaptation gains. Simulation results show a
significant improvement in tracking performance compared to previous methods.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19601v1) |
| SocRATES: Towards Automated Scenario-based Testing of Social Navigation
  Algorithms | Shashank Rao Marpally, Pranav Goyal, Harold Soh |   Current social navigation methods and benchmarks primarily focus on proxemics
and task efficiency. While these factors are important, qualitative aspects
such as perceptions of a robot's social competence are equally crucial for
successful adoption and integration into human environments. We propose a more
comprehensive evaluation of social navigation through scenario-based testing,
where specific human-robot interaction scenarios can reveal key robot
behaviors. However, creating such scenarios is often labor-intensive and
complex. In this work, we address this challenge by introducing a pipeline that
automates the generation of context-, and location-appropriate social
navigation scenarios, ready for simulation. Our pipeline transforms simple
scenario metadata into detailed textual scenarios, infers pedestrian and robot
trajectories, and simulates pedestrian behaviors, which enables more controlled
evaluation. We leverage the social reasoning and code-generation capabilities
of Large Language Models (LLMs) to streamline scenario generation and
translation. Our experiments show that our pipeline produces realistic
scenarios and significantly improves scenario translation over naive LLM
prompting. Additionally, we present initial feedback from a usability study
with social navigation experts and a case-study demonstrating a scenario-based
evaluation of three navigation algorithms.
 | Natural Language Processing | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19595v1) |
| Quasicrystal problem -- on rigidity of non-periodic structures from
  statistical mechanics point of view | Jacek Miȩkisz |   We present a brief history of quasicrystals and a short introduction to
classical lattice-gas models of interacting particles. We discuss stability of
non-periodic tilings and one-dimensional sequences of symbols seen as ground
states of some hamiltonians. We argue that some sort of homogeneity, the
so-called Strict Boundary Condition, is necessary for stability of non-periodic
ground states against small perturbations of interactions and thermal
fluctuations.
 | Other | [Link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19594v1) |
